I am continually puzzled by the publishing industry's \prizes.\  This book takes up an astonishing amount of shelf space in book stores.  Cover to cover there is nothing in it.  It is like reading a cut and paste book.  The characters are thin, flavorless, cliched, sleep-inducing.  The same with the dialogue.  I am still trying to determine what the author's purpose was, unless it was to bore us to tears (those would be the only tears shed).  I felt like it was written by an automaton, someone who does not care about the craft of writing but thinks she is precious.  There is no strength to the story or the sentences.  I actually felt insulted by this drivel.Read The Deptford Trilogy, by Robertson Davies.  Now there is a circus story you won't forget., overall|1|Negative
I bought this book when it first came out, because of the exceptional reviews I read.  I have never finished this book.  I started it, shelved it, read three books, went back to it and I just could not foster up enough interest to continue reading.  The story line is uninteresting and the characters were dull. I finally accepted that I would not likely ever to read it; so I tried to sell the book back to the store. The book store did not accept it because this item was not moving from the shelves!  It was definitely not worth the money I spent on this item., overall|1|Negative
got the sample for my kindle and loved it.  bought it.  then it got raunchy.  alot of bad language and vulgar descriptions.  I just wish all that had been in the sample so I wouldn't have wasted my money buying the book!, overall|1|Negative
The concept of this book was interesting to me but this book is boring. The characters are one dimensional and the main character is lame. I decided not to finish it after reading other reviews that say it is a waste of time (I got about half way through)., overall|1|Negative
I dislike strange sexual behavior but most of all I hate killing and mistreatment of animals and other humans.  I just didn't look into the book far enough to realize these things were written about., overall|1|Negative
I really wish publishers would rate books like they do movies.  I got to the porn part and once again threw another book in the trash unfinished.  Problem is these books are good and the authors don't need to put the trashy parts in - they choose to.  Garbage in - Garbage out.  Guard your heart and your mind don't buy this book. Buy something else or wait for the PG version., overall|1|Negative
It took me approximately 8 hours over the course of a week to read this garbage, and in retrospect I can certainly  think of things I would rather have been doing for that 8 hours, like, say, setting my hair on fire or arm-wrestling a 400 lb orangutang.  I reckon those activities would have been more fun and fulfilling.This is a truly bad novel.  Truly bad.  The writing is amateurish, the dramatic tension poorly developed, the dialogue awful and the character development is shallow and one-dimensional.  I could not get over how stilted and poor the writing was.  Our newly orphaned hero, Jacob Jankowski, dropped out of Cornell before his final vet exam, jumped a train containing the Benzini Bros travelling circus, got taken on as the circus vet, instantly fell hopelessly in love with one of the married showgirls despite spending barely any time alone with her, took on a cookie-cutter baddie to boot (boo, hiss!) and survived to live happily ever after to a ripe old age.  So there's the plot outline, which initially showed some promise.  Pity Ms Gruen did very little with it that didn't come across as a below par submission to a Creative Writing 101 Workshop.  Probably one of the worst books I've read this decade.  Under no circumstances read this poor excuse for a novel.  The fact that so many reviewers have given it 5-stars is a mystery on par with the Bermuda Triangle. Is it collective hysteria? I just don't get it., overall|1|Negative
I did not like the language or the story. I have not finished the the book and have no interest in doing so, overall|1|Negative
My hatred for this book knows no bounds. This is the trashiest thing to infiltrate the literature section of the bookstore since Henry Miller. (Although I'm not a Henry Miller expert, I'm guessing he at least brought some literary merit to the table, which is more than I can say for this author!) The depression-era circus setting, although intriguing, was not enough to make up for the endless vulgarity, flat characterization and vapid dialogue. And, to make matters worse, no character, at least from the ones I can remember, is spared horrific scenes of physical abuse - you name it, woman, worker, elephant, dog, clown. I just got tired of it all after a while.Why did I even bother to finish it? It was sort of like watching Ripley's Believe it or Not to see what kind of ghastly thing would happen next. Well now I believe it; this is one of the worst contemporary books I've read., overall|1|Negative
Life's a bitch and then you get old and it's worse and then you die.  That's all you need to know, which is a good thing because this novel has left me too depressed to write any more., overall|1|Negative
The prologue to this book put me off a little, containing as it did a very descriptive act of violence, but I persevered since someone had recommended this book to me.  Two more very ugly, explicit and disgusting sexualized \scenes\ in the very early pages had me deleting the whole thing and not reading any further.  I'm told this has been made into a movie, which not only beggars belief, but illustrates why I rarely find a movie these days that is worth watching., overall|1|Negative
There might be a good story here, but personally, the excessive profanity and sexual situations were offputting.  I returned the book unfinished., overall|1|Negative
like many others, i was disappointed by the dialogue and characters in this book. an embarrassingly poor effort.i also wondered by the author choose to emphatically make the only evil character jewish, when no one else's religion was even mentioned. what is with that? any ideas?, overall|1|Negative
I'm just not the type to enjoy this sort of storyline.  This was my fault for taking a flyer on something that was in the movies (which I never saw) and wanted to skip Hollywood for the story directly.  Couldn't finish it -- not for me.  But saved me from seeing the screenplay)., overall|1|Negative
This novel is a rambling, disjointed and thoroughly annoying depiction of a highly forgettable era in Amercan history.  The characters are flimsy, the plot is circuitous and the endless stories of animal cruelty are downright depressing.  Perhaps the one saving grace is the author's use of Jacob's character as an elderly man who is looking back on his life with hindsight.  I cannot believe there has been such a fuss about this book and that someone was foolish enough to make it into a film.  Now that will be a real flop!  If I ever see this author's name again I will move away from it as quickly as I am able.  This was just a terrible book., overall|1|Negative
I thought this was an interesting read until the author decided to label the villian of the piece as a paranoid schizophrenic.  August was cruel, sadistic and had violent mood swings.  None of these are symptoms of schizophrenia.  He did not hear voices, have complicated delusions, or an inability to keep touch with reality.  Unlike most unmedicated schizophenics, August had no trouble  thinking rationally or logically, on the contrary, he was in charge of a large section of the circus and exhibited fine organizational skills!The writer could simply have portrayed her character, August, as a jealous, violent man but instead she chose to advance the false stigma that people with schizophrenia are horribly cruel and violent or that they have a \split\ personality. If only Gruen had researched psychiatry as well as she had the circus.I work with people who suffer from this disease.  While, without medication the patients delusions might possibly, rarely, lead them to do something violent, it's usually in relationship to fear associated with a delusion -- thinking a person is really an alien from outerspace, for example.  Never the sort of cold-blooded violence August engaged in.  August always knew exactly who or what he was hurting.When medicated, people with schizophrenia are actually less likely to commit violent acts than the general population.It's truly a shame when a popular book spreads stigma in this manner, the negative ripple effects go on and on., overall|1|Negative
I agree with several other people who found it amazing that this is a bestseller. As an author whose books sell poorly right here on Amazon, I wish I knew her secret. I found it disgusting on so many levels, hard to follow, and in the end, just not worth reading. Perhaps something in the last third of the book would have changed my mind, but I couldn't finish it. I can't remember the last time I threw a book into the garbage can, but I looked it over carefully, thought about the very act of throwing out a book, and then dropped it into the trash. I don't regret it., overall|1|Negative
I managed to read half the book and then couldn't handle reading any more animal abuse. It was the worst I have ever read before. I should have known since it was written about a circus not to read it., overall|1|Negative
I remember when Cecil B. Demille directed a behemoth circus film called \The Greatest Show On Earth\ in the early 50's.  It had such spectacle, and what a star-studded cast headed by the great Jimmy Stewart, Cornel Wilde, Betty Hutton...it was, just, well, awful.  Yes, AWFUL.  And ya know, Hollywood decided to give this giant piece of piffle the year's BEST PICTURE Oscar.  I mean, it really makes you wonder why people (uh, powerful people, that is), go to the trouble of praising something that's not worth the price of admission.  Could it be....to make the film more profitable???  Could it be....money, money, and hopefully more money????  To gush and fawn over something so abysmal, luring the public into conforming to the propogandic publicity, that it finally becomes a pseudo-masterpiece, not to be missed?Know what I mean?Because if you don't, then borrow (DON\T BUY!!), Sara Gruen's Best-selling monkey-poop called \Water For Elephants\.  This is a book that may give the beginning writer hope and much needed optimism.  Repeat after me....\If Sara Gruen can be a published writer, then I can be a published writer\.  It's so easy you don't even have to develope characters to any great extent, as long as you have a skeletal outline of your story, just scribble it down and then decorate with some tacky sex so it doesn't fall into the children's market.  Make sure the story is narrated too, but make sure it's just about as pretentious a narration as you can dream up.  Then populate the text with various freaky deaky characters and situations....like animal torture and alcoholism.  Then let the 'big boys' market it for you and wait for the film, that will hopefully have an all-female cast.  I mean, who cares?, overall|1|Negative
Ugh! What a total waste of time and money. I can not beleive the author relied so heavily on constant erotica. If she could have left that out it may have been a good story. Don't waste your money!, overall|1|Negative
Sara Gruen's talent as a writer was wasted on gratuitous violence and cruelty. It is a shame when a good writer sells out for a potential movie.  This is cheap read., overall|1|Negative
I am not a big fan of books on tape.  My husband is...on long trips we listen. If you dont mind listening to an old man with wet phlegm in his throat for hours ...go for it.  Since I picked this tape based on the reviews from Amazon I suffered through 5 dvd's so far. The story is not interesting or enlightening. A bad story can be read thru rather quickly but on tape listening at a horribly slow pace....well  ...it is like water torture., overall|1|Negative
I was really looking forward to reading this book, especially after seeing the previews for the upcoming movie.  I must say that it is one of the worst books I have ever read and I have been an avid reader my entire life.  I couldn't relate or get attached to the main character, Jacob, except at certain points when he was elderly.  I actually felt very embarrassed for the author while reading the many squalor erotica scenes that did nothing to help me connect or care for any of the characters.  I was expecting a heartfelt romance, but the characters, including the love interest, Marlena, are so one dimensional that I found the whole thing absurd and unbelievable.  I kept trying to get into it and hoped it would get better as it went along, but no such luck.  If you must read it, try to borrow it instead of buying or see if you can pick up a cheap copy at a thrift store.  Better yet, spend your time reading something with a convincing story and engaging characters instead., overall|1|Negative
I gave three descriptions in my title, that say it all, but the first two speak the loudest - this book is repetitive and boring.  The train rolls in, the train rolls out; in the old folk's facility Jacob is nothing but cranky and rude over and over again.  I truly don't understand how this book was picked up for publication.  I can more easily understand that it was made into a movie (even though I haven't seen it and after reading the book I probably won't), as I can imagine it is truly a spectacle with all of the color and magic of a circus.  And I will agree with other reviewers that it is well researched and the author does a good job portraying the post-depression times.  But that alone just doesn't carry the rest of the storyline, which is shallow and trite.  Among so many unaddressed issues - how is it that Jacob, an ivy league-educated young man, never looks back at what his life might have been after joining the low-lifes (mostly hobos, plus the entertainers) the circus attracts?  Certainly it's not to care for the animals, as you see him doing very little of that in the book.  At the end he wants to \run away\ from the old folk's home and return to the only life he'd ever known - no surprise there - but it's a ridiculous proposition due to his age and I can't imagine anyone in the circus inviting him.  If you get nothing else from Uncle Al's character it is that he or any man in his position would be ruthless and cut loose anyone who didn't pull their weight, so what would a 90+ year old man do?  Certainly not water the elephants., overall|1|Negative
I purchased this because I read good reviews and it was only $4 on Kindle. It is full of sex scenes and profanity. Very sorry I purchased it. Will stay with Christian fiction., overall|1|Negative
-Juvenile and disney plot.-faulty and unrealistic details.-Uninteresting and underdeveloped characters.-Premature professions of love.Basically, this book reads like a typical Hollywood movie. This is unfortunate, but it is representative of a new class of novelists who are more influenced by movies' depiction of culture, rather than the actual culture itself. Minus all the R-rated stuff, this is nothing more than a whimsical book for adolescents. Once again an underwhelming and lazy manifestation of a great concept., overall|1|Negative
Characters were constantly doing things that just didn't make any sense.  His parents are both killed in a tragic accident a week before his finals, and his professors do NOTHING to give him the benefit of the doubt on his exams?  Were incompletes a complete unknown in this time period?  (There's a lot more, but I'm trying to block it out....)  The main character himself seems to have virtually no inner life except a vague desire to get laid.  At one point he says he's interested in animals, but there sure no evidence of this.The entire first half of the book is exposition about circus life, with a long segment of gratuitous titillation thrown in.  I've got nothing against &#34;gritty&#34; and &#34;true to life&#34;.  However, I have no tolerance for scenes that are so obviously there only to sell the book as soft porn to an audience that wouldn't know literature if it hit them in the face.Characters are less 3-D than cardboard cut outs.  My dad's vague recollections of a circus coming to town when he was a kid in this time period were way more riveting.  At least they involved actual people, with real human motivations -- not characters who move from point A to B only because the author's outline said the plot had to move there.And present tense?  Throughout the entire book?  That's a device that should have been discarded in high school.  It does nothing but make me snicker at the author's obvious lack of writing talent.I had heard a rumor that this book was written as a NaNoWriMo project, and I can certainly believe it.  It seems to have been dashed off from a previously constructed outline, without any regard for building up characters and then modifying the plot if it made more sense for their motivations.  The present tense writing style is another give away that this was written in a rush and barely revised.  And the plonking in of vocabulary and &#34;facts&#34; willy-nilly -- stopping what little story there is in mid-stream -- kind of screams &#34;first draft&#34; all the way through., overall|1|Negative
I had heard this was a good book.  I was misinformed.  This was the most crude, foul book I have ever attempted to read.  Though the main story was mildly interesting, the all too frequent use of profanity and descriptions of intimate relations put me off entirely.  I started trying to use white out to cover the offensive items.  I quickly realized that would include a great deal of the book.  I decided I didn't want to fill my mind with such things and stopped reading.  This book went directly into the recycle bin rather than being donated to a thrift store.  I didn't want another unwitting person to go through the same experience I did., overall|1|Negative
The characters in this book just seem fake. They have no real personalities. I have a hard time reading a book when the characters are so one dimensional. The story seems to be contrived because of this., overall|1|Negative
I'm another reader who can't even begin to understand why this book was so popular, or why people rave about Gruen's writing.  I thought the writing was mediocre at best, and that the plot, narration, and dialogue were BORING!  Plus, the characters aren't very likable, and the frequent graphic sex scenes are completely unnecessary.  I tried to like this book, and I tried to finish it, but I really couldn't, on either count., overall|1|Negative
The parts of this book that dealt with the main character in old age, were very insightful and I enjoyed that.  But quite honestly had I known that it would detail the abuse of the circus animals and then also the detailed sex acts I would never had purchased this.  I wish I knew how to delete it from my Kindle.  I also wish someone else had mention this in the reviews that I saw.  I NEVER stop reading a book, but had to quit about 35% of the way thru it, it was disgusting and I am not a prude.I would never recommend this book, nor will I venture to the movie., overall|1|Negative
I lost the plot somewhere between the strip scene, the masturbating, and the detailed sex scenes.  If you like that kind of stuff this book is for you., overall|1|Negative
Sara Gruen seems like a nice person. But this novel is total dreck. The structure reeks of baloney, the \different\ characters are written with the same bland voice, and the whole melodramatic mess never rises above laughable soap operatics. I'd never want to take enjoyment of this kind of thing away from anyone, but if you've not read it, I'm sure there are better books about the circus out there for you., overall|1|Negative
I couldn't finish the book I was so bored and I HATE leaving books unfinished. I didn't like the crudeness of it either, I just don't see why it was such a hit...... blah!, overall|1|Negative
This is one of the worst books I have ever read. I have to admit I did not finish it. It was simultaneously boring, cliched, badly written and trite. Oh and repetitive. The only redeeming feature of the book was the parts where Jacob was an old man. If the author could write like that more consistently then she would be on to something. I cannot figure out why people love this book so much. If you compare it to another recently very popular book, The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo, at least that book was riveting, even though it was also not very well written. I am not looking for Faulkner, but if a book is not high literature it should at least have a compelling plot. This book had neither neither good writing style nor an interesting plot. Don't waste your time., overall|1|Negative
I've decided I just can't finish this book. The main character is a 23-year old male, but c'mon - I just don't appreciate some of the details the author is having him describe and they are totally unnecessary to the story. I've read almost nine chapters and decided I don't need any more images like the explicit strip scene, the details of a graphic \8-pager\, and I certainly didn't need the picture of what the dwarf is doing alone on his cot while looking at the graphic magazine. It's a big disappointment because the story is actually interesting and I want to find out what happens but not badly enough to wade through the sludge. I don't think I've been this disappointed in a story since the ending of Angela's Ashes., overall|1|Negative
I could not finish this book. It might have been interesting were it not for the terrible language, the graphic and totally disgusting sex scenes, and the cruelty to animals... ugh! I hated it!!! I still have the scene of the masturbating dwarf etched in my mind, and I read the book over a year ago!, overall|1|Negative
I bought this book because it was rated so highly and it was a NaNoWriMo novel. Somehow I made it to the bit that describes the old man having a shower which is about a 1/3 the way through according to my Kindle progress bar. I don't know how. I found it so incredibly vulgar that I just couldn't keep going. I didn't even care enough about the characters or the story to skip to the last few pages to find out what happened. In fact, I wish I could erase what I did read from my head and gain back the time I wasted reading it., overall|1|Negative
I didn't get into the characters at all, I skipped the last 100 pages and read the last chapter., overall|1|Negative
Some parts are entertaining enough, but left me wanting more. Lacking in character development. Predictable with a thin story line. Skip it. Better stuff out there to read., overall|1|Negative
I did not like all the animal abuse.  It was just hard to read.  A very depressing story., overall|1|Negative
If I live to be a thousand years old, I will never understand the hoopla surrounding this novel.  It was praised for its meticulous research, but while reading it I found myself thinking that it had been written by somebody who had never been to a circus, and I was unsurprised to find out that I was correct.  My first college roommate was a real circus girl, and I can tell you that Sara Gruen did not even scratch the surface of circus life.It's a rare writer who can write well in the voice of the gender they are not, and Sara Gruen is not eligible for that club.  If I had not known for sure that a woman had written it, it wouldn't have been a difficult guess.The story is so melodramatic, it belongs among the most florid of historical romantic fiction, and that is not my cup of tea.  I had to force myself to complete this book.  I wish I hadn't., overall|1|Negative
I wanted to rate this a \zero.\ WHY can't there be a minus stars rating. Totally disappointed. Over-the top melodramatic and predictable, especially since the ending is revealed in the first 5 pages. AWFUL, totally dreadful, prose. WHY, would ANY publisher (other than Harleguin Press) pick this tripe up! Thank god I got this from the library and didn't pay $$$ for this.I suspect this may be one of those rare instances where the film version might be better (but only if they make the orig novel unrecognizable). It certainly couldn't be any worse. I listened to the audio version while exercising and could not reach the fast-forward button--made my workouts twice as difficult. ;-), overall|1|Negative
While the writers style was captivating and interesting from the very first chapter, the book became so much more graphic and crude than was necessary.  Some things are better left to the imagination., overall|1|Negative
I would have given this book no stars but that is not an option.This book is horrendous. I cannot imagine anyone with a lick of intelligence actually enjoying this trash. I threw it away after 25 pages., overall|1|Negative
i cant believe how many people are in love with this book. i really, really wanted to like it, and kept waiting for it to be good, but it was so boring i could hardly even concentrate. like another reviewer said, the best part was the pictures, and that says alot. dont waste your time., overall|1|Negative
I just finished reading this book tonight, and all I can say is that I do not understand what all the hype was about over the book/movie. I could not get into this book at all, and could not wait to finish it. If I wasn't the type of person that had to finish all the books I started, I would not have even bothered with this., overall|1|Negative
The book was weird. I felt like I was reading a porn book or something. The description on how the female dances, it goes all into details even how she touches her boobs she even goes naked. I don't get it is she a a circus whore? I didn't want to read a book on how she touches herself... so im returning,Im not into that kinda of reads. Maybe it is not like that as in whole book? but its an early start for dirty things so I assume the rest of the book is the same., overall|1|Negative
As a devoted historical fiction reader, I thought this book would interest me. It did not. Water for Elephants reads like a children's novel, save for excessive and serious profanity, graphic and frequent sex scenes, and violence so vivid I was moved to nausea. If you are able to ignore those sorts of things, you will not find yourself feeling any kind of sympathy for the one-dimensional characters. The characters do not develop over the course of the story, and seem only concerned with dabbling in vice. As a result, I was unable to identify with them.A portion of the story is written from the point of view of the main character in his old age. This writing is exceptional, and managed to keep me interested during the course of the book. Still, these marvelous little glimpses of author Sara Gruen's potential do not permit me to recommend this book to anybody. Avoid it., overall|1|Negative
I don't get it. I couldn't even get through the first half of this book. I sure tried. I was bored! And so disappointed!, overall|1|Negative
The protagonist is not convincingly portrayed. He impresses as a bit dull. Somehow he acted without characteristics that justify his actions., overall|1|Negative
It is very rare that I don't finish a book. I just couldn't find a single reason to continue reading; the writing style is that of a children's book - in a strange combination with graphic sex and 21st century profanity (both of which I don't mind in the right setting), the language doesn't match the 30ies, the cruelty to animals made me cringe, and the story was predictable., overall|1|Negative
This was a Book Club selection last year and our group of seven were looking forward to enjoying a recent best-seller. None of us liked it. I thought the story about circus life was interesting but I did not like any of the characters and although I tried, could not find a redeeming quality in any of them. I also did not care much for the writing style. Had it not been for Book Club, I would have quit a quarter of the way., overall|1|Negative
This book was over-rated and extremely boring!  The characters were not relateable and I had to stop reading half way  through., overall|1|Negative
I never found a book that so accurately portrayed growing old and how you are treated. The story begins with life in the circus,, overall|1|Negative
The book is worthy of the praise it has received and its position on the Best Seller lists.  The film is a total travesty from screenplay to cast.Why trash the Kindle edition with a terrible cover? Even if no one sees the cover on their Kindle, viewing it online is a reminder of how badly Hollywood butchered the book., overall|1|Negative
This was a frustrating, truly awful book. While it started off interesting (a boy's parents dies and leave him nothing, and he gets caught up with a circus), it quickly became transparent and painful. He \falls in love\ with a girl he hardly speaks to, who is married. He reacts when he should hold back and holds back when he should act. And there are far too many random, explicit, and unnecessary sex scenes. Perhaps if the author spent less time on graphic sex and more time on character development, this book would have been more tolerable. And the ending, which I was hoping would earn the book some redemption, was terribly disappointing and infuriating.My faith in the NY Times bestseller list has been ruined., overall|1|Negative
I couldn't read this book all the way through.  Using GD all the time and the main character lusting after a married women. YUCK!, overall|1|Negative
WOAH, I'm not sure why this book is so highly rated but I couldn't even continue reading it. Very draging and boring to me. Made it to chapter four and had to stop., overall|1|Negative
My book club read and discussed this book a few years ago. All but one of us hated it. I knew then that it was written---or edited---for easy adaptation to film.Ta da!!The overall skeleton of the story is not bad, I just wish that another writer fleshed it out. This is minor literary fiction, at best., overall|1|Negative
I did NOT expect this graphic brutality when I bought this book; circus animals killed because of lack of food or just laziness on the part of the handlers. The story starts off in an engaging way, Jake the old man in the nursing home was entertaining. But there were too many instances of animals being abused/killed that I could not finish this book as it seemed to become the main focus. Too many animals in life are mistreated as it is and I do not need this information shoved in my face via a novel. This book should come with a warning to potential readers right on the front cover., overall|1|Negative
I read about the first chapter or so, I just could not get into this book. I was no impressed and just couldn't do it. Waste of money for me., overall|1|Negative
Okay, first off, I had to think about this review long & hard before posting it.  Here goes...I feel cheated.  This book was so hyped up & I'm sure it had to do with the movie, which I refuse to see...but that's another story...I like the story.  I love the start & the end & for those that actually read the book...you know what I'm talking about.  For those that haven't read the book, I won't give it away.So what didn't I like?  SPOILER ALERT...stop here if you haven't read the book & plan to do so....I didn't like that the love story never really evolved.  It was just like Jake likes Marlena & she likes it...boom...now her husband knows they are in love.  WHAT?  When did that develop?  I needed more detail about their relationship & it just wasn't there.I did enjoy the history of the circus life & the life during the Depression.  I thought the Polish elephant was a riot.  I thought the old pictures from circus life back in this time period was a great addition to the book.But I really can't get over the story developement for Jake & Marlena.  Come on?  I can't be the only one who was expecting more on them??  Can I?Overall, the hype around this book was set too high.  I would not recommend this book to anyone.Guess I'll donate the book to the local library...., overall|1|Negative
boring! can't understand why so many people enjoyed reading this book, I read 1/3 of it, and just couldn't make myself to read any longer., overall|1|Negative
There should be a warning on books like this! With all the good reviews I thought it would be a good book, so I checked it out from my library. There are porn scenes in this book, so I stopped reading and returned it right away. I do not want to read stuff like that., overall|1|Negative
i totally don't understand why so many people loved this book. i earnestly tried to read it the whole way through but couldn't. the main character is completely unbelievable, and the dialogue is terrible (i find it hard to believe people spoke that way in the year this novel took place). the prose in this book had zero imagination. when i read books like this, i feel like the author is more interested in finishing than developing the work.the litany of things i hated about this book would take all day to write. i suppose if you were ever interested in read this tripe, go for it, as it seems like tons of people loved it. i hated Water for Elephants, however., overall|1|Negative
My previous review disappeared, and even though it's been years since I read this garbage, I'm still so angry about the time and money wasted, I feel I must add my voice back into the mix.  I do remember being taken aback by brazen antisemitism that only one other reviewer referenced. I agree with every other 1 star reviewer and I tried to figure out how to give it 0 stars..., overall|1|Negative
This book was for the most part far too sad. It was also so cruel firstlyto the people who were treated worse than, being starved, being murdered, having no human rights. The animal cruelty was unbearable and inhumane. I am so glad I didn't see the movie. I wish I had never read the book it was nightmarish. Although we know that these things happened its just awful to read it and feel such pain AND sorrow. I woulsnt recommend to to anybody, ever, overall|1|Negative
This is a disgusting book in my opinion. The author is way too graphic in descriptions, just not necessary. That and the profanity seems to be the basis for the book, no depth in it. Would not recommend., overall|1|Negative
I thought this book was poorly developed and depressing. Really, can anybody come up with a book that doesn't involve infidelity? This guy threw away his whole life and what was the point of this book? I thought it stunk. I can't even believe I read this tripe. stay away from this author..., overall|1|Negative
I purchased this book based on the reviews.  The book was full of animal abuse and human abuse.  I was so disappointed in it and if you have a weak stomach with animal abuse, don't read it., overall|1|Negative
After two hundred and fifty pages of waiting for the protagonist to do something, do anything even remotely worthy of our spending time with him, I finally gave up. It's shocking that this is what has become of American literature. It's the Oprah factor. \Oh, isn't it so romantic that this guy makes out with the bad guy's wife while the bad guy beats the elephant with a stick with a nail in it.\ This guy allows the elephant to be beaten on a daily basis and he's a vet and he does nothing. I don't know, maybe in the shocking ending we find out that this wimp didn't really exist or something like that, but I couldn't read another page where this ineffectual non-hero continued to do absolutely nothing. Zero. Just imagine \Grapes of Wrath\ except Tom Joad turns a blind eye to workers being beaten so he can sneak around with a married woman and call her by her first name in 90% of the sentences in which he speaks to her.If you love animals of any kind, you will hate this protagonist. This book is worse than \Cold Mountain.\, overall|1|Negative
Personally, I did not find the characters compelling and the plot seemed made for a movie.  Not what I am looking for in a book., overall|2|Negative
I wanted to like this book; however, the reality was the writing was sub-par (it reminded me of a a middle or high school essay on what I did over the Summer) and the characters nor the plot were rich enough to hold my attention., overall|2|Negative
I heard from a few people that this is a good read...  Not true.  The idea of the story is interesting, but it is written like a bad television-remake set during the time period.  I did finish it, but I closed the book angry and disappointed.  That being said- I realize that I'm in the minority and I've spoken to other people who really enjoyed reading it.  Just isn't for me I suppose., overall|2|Negative
This book was a quick read and a creative idea. But it was dry. It could and should have been elaborated on. It seemed as though the author was bored with writing it. Granted there were times of strong emotion but for the most part it was just lacking in all aspects., overall|2|Negative
I was looking for a good read and after seeing the high marks this book received I thought I couldn't go wrong. I put it down halfway thru and only picked it back up because I paid for it. I read alot and I just don't get the extreme praise this book racked up., overall|2|Negative
This book is not what I expected at all.....I guess I expected more of a love story as well as an adventure and what I got was neither. While I give the author credit for her obvious research on the era...the story was so incredibly slow!!! I kept thinking \is this over yet??\  I wanted to like it I really did. Definitely a disappointment. I wish I thought differently., overall|2|Negative
I had high hopes for this book.  Lots of great reviews, an interesting setting I find fascinating, and a love story--not too shabby.  I didn't go in expecting literary greatness, but even so this book fell flat.  For starters, the \old man reflecting from a retirement home\ is a tired technique and all those chapters bored me to tears. My main problem with the novel, however, is that the characters are one dimensional.  They always seem to be doing dramatic things and facing tragedy after tragedy, but I couldn't connect because there is very little reflection or internal monologue (not even in the retirement home!).  The story clips along at such a quick pace it gets bogged down by its own far-fetched events.  I found it difficult to understand why the characters, and even Rosie the elephant, act the way they do--everything seems trumped up to make the plot work. I can't say I even completely understand the title.  I got the connection to the man in the retirement home who claimed he carried water for elephants, but what in the heck did this have to do with the story?  Maybe I'm just not deep enough to understand!  Quite frankly, I didn't enjoy the book much at all and my advice would be to skip it.  Perhaps the movie is better., overall|2|Negative
I enjoyed reading the first half of this book, but I found myself skimming through parts in the middle.  Not sure if I understand all the fuss., overall|2|Negative
The story follows Jacob Jankowski, who is living out the rest of his life in a rest home.  When he was 23, he was poised to become a veterinarian.  However, fate stepped in and he left school.  He ended up joining a traveling circus, where he assisted with the menagerie.  During this time, he falls in love with Marlena, who is a performer in the show and also married to the ringleader.I will say that Gruen is gifted in her ability to create imagery.  You can see the animals and feel the angst that the circus employees go through under their sadistic leaders.  That being said, I can't say that Marlena is a well-developed character.  I don't feel as though we know why Jacob fell in love with her, beyond the fact that she was beautiful and cared about her animals.  It feels as though that part of the story was left out.And why is August, Marlena's husband, so evil? It does sound as though he suffers from some mental issues, but what is the background on him?I just couldn't fall in love with these characters nor the story., overall|2|Negative
Thankfully I read this for free from the Kindle Prime lending library - I would not have wanted to actually spend money on this book.The beginning of the story with the older Jacob reminiscing was initially interesting but from there on, the story went downhill for me.For one thing, I couldn't shake off a distinct impression of deja vu as I read this book. Then it struck me that I was strongly remindedof Stephen King's \The Green Mile\ when I read the old Jacob sections (very old man in an old person's home reminiscing about anoddly sentient animal while struggling to retain his identity in the face of unsympathetic caregivers). There's even the Popeye/Olive Oyl8-pager which is also referenced in \The Green Mile\.  The Jacob/Marlena/August triangle was similar to the onein William Styron's \Sophie's Choice\ (volatile charming Jewish man with a personality  disorder married to a younger sensitive woman, theyoung man taken under the older man's wing falling in love with the wife, resulting in violence and upheaval).But beyond that, the Jacob/Marlena love story was very poorly developed. Marlena never came together as a three-dimensionalcharacter.  When older Jacob talks about his wife and how she was his helpmeet at the beginning of the book, a weak, passive character such as Marlena was not the woman I pictured. I certainly don't understand why he fell so deeply in love with her. The ending was feel-good but nevertheless unsatisfying due to its lack of realism.The few plus points in this book are the quirky secondary characters such as Walter and Camel. The thematic setting of a traveling circus was also interesting but after reading the author interview included with the Kindle version, it seems a lot of the side plots and atmospheric color were lifted largely unaltered from actual instances the author read or heard about while researching the book.Given the hype, I didn't expect a book that I will barely remember in another month except for its similarity to other, better works., overall|2|Negative
Just didn't like the story.  I don't think I even finished the book. Just not my kind of story. ., overall|2|Negative
In a time of difficulties and in a place where exotic things are a rule, Sara Gruen sets her novel \Water for elephants\. The story starts with moment of violence and from then on is tolerable narrative mess. The main character is a veterinarian student who drops school, joins a circus during the Depression-era, finds love, hate and whatever may crosses his way.The lessons he learns are so valuable that decades later, living in a home for old people, he can still perfectly recall them - and pass them along. He is Jacob, a strange figure, who is no longer an alien when he runs into people even stranger than him. Tod Browning's movie \Freaks\ comes to mind, but Gruen never reaches the same level.The only redeeming point in the book are the old black and white circuses pictures with scenes from a bygone era. On the other hand, Gruen's heavy-handed prose lacks the sparkling that would enhance \Water for elephants\. Her storytelling abilities are more focused in the tell - when it should be the showing - missing the chance of creating a whimsical story. We learn every step Jacob takes from a to c, even the unnecessary b. With card-board flat characters, the aninals end up stealing the show. These excesses tone down the narrative and keep the novel from reaching a higher artistic level., overall|2|Negative
Required no thinking. Boring and trite. I can't imagine why this book is so popular. (In fact, I read it a few years ago but it popped up here and I wanted to review it now to give another point of view to the multitudes who adored it.), overall|2|Negative
I couldn't really get into the book.  Still have not seen the movie either but to me the book starts out slow and I hate books like that, overall|2|Negative
Like many who were critical of this book, I truly did want to love it. However, the writing was simple and flat, the characters lacked depth or conviction and the ending was a huge let down. Jacob was infuriating as he claimed to love these animals and then becomes sexually sidetracked while his Rosie was being beaten half to death. It made me sick to my stomach. Over and over, he continued to behave like a helpless child while this animal was brutalized. Time and again, he is either incredibly violent or he is impotent and seemingly defenseless. In the end, each conflict is suddently and hastily resolved with little authenticity. What a shame as this could have been a deeply moving and engaging story., overall|2|Negative
...but I just couldn't.  Honestly, it stressed me out.  I wasn't enchanted or transported, just full of anxiety at the turn of every page.  I read a lot of books, and I review very few, but this is a book I really wanted to love and had to force myself to finish.  I was hoping for something more along the lines of \Carter Beats the Devil\, but instead I got \The Devil tortures Carter and his girl and Carter ends up alone in a nursing home.\  I just couldn't get behind this story., overall|2|Negative
I kept reading because I was hoping it would get better and redeem itself in the end, but it never did.  Rawness and grit do not substitute for depth.  I appreciated the accurate perspective of an elderly person., overall|2|Negative
Did not like the book.  I especially didn't like the fact that no one could stop the elephant abuse and didn't like the sex in it.  Pretty crude.  Too bad they had to add the graffic sex.  It wasn't necessary to the story!, overall|2|Negative
Good concept in terms of time, place and description of depression era circus life.  Writing is passable, but observations on human character are WEAK.  I regret reading this and should have just gone to the movie., overall|2|Negative
So much has already been written about the shallow characters and implausible ending... So no need to belabor that point.However, I do want to throw up a Red Flag to those readers who, like me, aren't big fans of profanity. I listened to Water for Elephants on CD and found myself cringing repeatedly at the author's liberal use of the F-word. (And many other words.) Furthermore, the graphic sexuality felt like the author's attempt to titillate and shock her readers with needless cheap thrills. She provided ample details regarding the sexual habits of her characters whilst omitting more relevant ones regarding central relationships and motives.There was an interesting storyline in there somewhere. As to the rest, it could've been toned down., overall|2|Negative
borrowed this book from the kindle library and only had it a day before I ended up returning it....i found the parts that I read pornographic and vulgar...makes me sad for the world and those that AREN'T bothered by such things...guess I should just stick to the young adult novels...*sigh*, overall|2|Negative
I didn't see the movie and after reading the book, I wonder how it became a movie.I though it was a ver slow read, just didn't capture my interest enough....Not much if a storyline., overall|2|Negative
I was really disappointed by this book. The only parts that were not too bad were the chapters where Jacob was an old man. But the circus stuff was very pedestrian. No spark to the writing. Don't waste your time., overall|2|Negative
I was given this book to borrow -- \It is just a wonderful book.\ I cannot stand mediocre writing, and for this reason I don't often read popular fiction. I pushed into it, however, hoping for the best. Just could never care at all about the characters. The old guy is grumpy and resentful. Some of the circus behind-the-scenes reporting is interesting, but much of that is pretty low-life and tawdry. Not for me. I will read the ending and report back to my friend, but I will not read the rest of it., overall|2|Negative
I was very eager to read this novel. The picture on the cover intrigued me; that's as far as the fascination went. The book was not very interesting. It read like a documentary with a few poorly written graphic scenes to keep its readers reading. I finished it, but wouldn't read it and again and won't recommend it., overall|2|Negative
Everyone was talking about it last summer, and my book club decided to read it. I was very disappointed. Characters were not believable, there was too much cruelty to animals and violence here, nobody I really liked except the dwarf, and the back and forth from the young man to the nursing home got very dreary. I skipped a lot of pages because the early part was so boring., overall|2|Negative
Water for Elephants has its good moments (a particular incident late in the book, during which the protagonist is standing over a sleeping but dangerous man with knife in hand trying to decide what to do next is hauntingly poignant), but all told, I'm glad that I read this book through the Kindle leasing program rather than buying it.There are several themes in Water for Elephants, including the lack of dignity often associated with the treatment of the elderly and the evil effects of greed. However, the backbone of the story seems to be a sort of iconoclasm. The Sterling images of the circus often inculcated in us during childhood are challenged by images of violence, animal cruelty, and graphic sexuality. However, the fact that this book unearths the dark side of the early twentieth century circus speaks less to its quality than to the fact that our society all too often allows commercialism and popular mythology to shape our images of the past. Simply challenging false notions held by society contributes very little to the value of a story like this one. In the end, the tone of the book takes on moods which can change violently from the darkly cynical to the unrealistically optimistic (the ending of the book feels impossible, illegal, and unsafe). Sentimentality, rather than a meaningful exploration of human emotion, dominates the scenes of the assisted living facility, although as noted above, the fact that those scenes also bring to light the continuing need for respect to the elderly does serve to redeem them to a decent extent.The story is, on some level, a \forbidden romance\, and on this level, it has many failings. The rapidity with which Marlena falls for Jacob seems more indicative of a woman torn by the violent nature of her relationship than a woman in anything approaching love. The way in which August is killed seems to do nothing but Grant a legitimacy to the relationship via Pacidermis ex Machina, and to tie up loose ends.All in all, this isn't an awful book, but it seems to be the type of story commonly found in book discussion groups for all of two months before being rapidly forgotten. There is no real draw, beyond a handful of tense and well-written moments in the last quarter of the story.For the Kindle edition, images work surprisingly well, and I have no real complaints about formatting., overall|2|Negative
This was a book club assignment, I had not wanted to read this book because I had heard that there was some animal cruelty but as a member I try to appreciate other peoples book choices as they do mine.The cruelty was a little hard to read, especially the beatings of Rosie but I also found myself cringing at the unneccessary sex scenes that were over the top, boredom at the constant threat of tossing people of the train and disbelief at the stampede of the menagerie.I did like the elderly Jacob and his life at the nursing home, I think it shows how elderly people are often \put on the shelf\ when they become a bother in life...so sad.  Then this was spoilt by the idea that he ran away with the circus, was able to sell tickets even if he could not button his shirt and all with the acceptance of the current circus owner.I am sure the circus of that era was not a pleasant place but I think the characters could have been much better developed and the story a little less unbelievable., overall|2|Negative
I don't know why this book is on the best seller lists.  While the story is interesting, the writing is too one-dimensional.  The character development is elementary at best.  In my view, this book seems to have been written by a child.  It is so simple; it lacks depth.  What's up with the reading public?, overall|2|Negative
The difficulty of writing a book that is a \good read\ is that it must sweep you up and make you forget the world around you. You must become so invested in the daily life and fate of the characters that you become more interested in what is happening on the page than what is going on in your life. At its sporadic best, this novel is a good read. The author has chosen an interesting world and time to write about and obviously done her homework. But homework is not enough. The great nagging problems however are she is neither a good nor original writer. Consequently the characters she has created are wooden and every third sentence out of their mouths is either predictable or a howling cliche. The characters themselves are comprised of one cliche after the other-- the good hearted innocent hero, the evil boss, the plucky sidekick (a dwarf, no less),the bewitching damsel in distress, the schizo villain who is mean to animals... You've seen them all too many times before in books, movies, even cartoons. So when they meet their fates you shrug because you guessed what would happen to each of them fifty pages(or more) before. The book's huge success is similar to the success of a McDonald's hamburger-- you know what you're going to get as you walk into the place., overall|2|Negative
Sometimes, a reader's expectations can greatly influence how she or he views a book.  With a name like \Water for Elephants\, and a historical background as interesting as the Great Depression, I had expected to read a book about the difficulties of the circus life and how the historical backdrop influenced these characters' lives.  What I got instead was a sentimental love story dressed in the glitz of a historical novel, a slightly better-written version of a Nicholas Sparks novel.At the start of the book, the circus has just come to town; and that effectively got our querulous 93-year-old narrator to start reminiscing about the good old days when he used to travel with the Benzini Brother's Most Spectacular Show on Earth as a veterinarian.  As it turned out, 23-year-old Jacob Jankowski was one exam away from getting his veterinarian's degree from Cornell when both of his parents were killed in an automobile accident.  After having handled all of his parents' affairs, and after having found out that he's now virtually penniless, the grief-stricken young man walked out of his class room and hopped on the first train that crossed his path, a train that turned out to be the circus train owned by a ruthless circus owner, Big Al.  For the next 3 1/2 months, Jacob travelled with the circus as a veterinarian, taking care of the animals in the manegerie during the day and traveling from city to city by night.  It was also during this time that he met Marlena, the cricus performer who turned out to be the love of his life, and her cruel but charismatic husband, August.  The three soon developed the kind of complicated relationship that any romance reader worth his/her salt will know how it's going to turn out.The greatest strenght of this book definitely lies in the author's portrayl of circus life as they were in the early 1930's.  With Big Al, August, and Walter the midget - the author has assembled a memorable cast of secondary characters that the readers will either love to hate or root for.  Walter, in particular, turns out to be a character with much more depth than initially meets the eye, and how his relationship with Jacob evolved and developed was one of the highlights of the book.  Equally interesting was Jacob's interactions with Rosie, a mischievous elephant that ended up being the catalyst for a key event that will change Jacob's life.  I've never been a fan of the circus, but reading about Rosie's antics made me want to grab a handful of peanuts and head to the zoo.Regrettably, our main protagonists in the featured love story aren't nearly as interesting as the secondary or even the animal characters in the book.  Jacob, in particular, has about as much personality as a gnat. Throughout the book, he was grouchy as a 93-year-old, and whiny and ineffectual as a 23-year-old.  Some of the atrocities committed against the members of the circus - all in the name of survival and profit - is heartbreaking.  And yet, other than to rant and spend time sulking and moping around in his stockcart, Jacob was useless when it comes to helping his friends or even taking fate into his own hands.  Ultimately, his life turned out the way he wanted it to not because of any initiative on his part, but pure luck.  Since the book was told in first person from Jacob's point of view, the character of Marlena was even more under-developed than Jacob.  All we know is that she's this beautiful girl in pink sequin that caught Jacob's eye the day he joined the circus and from then on he was lost. There certainly wasn't enough interaction between the two to make their romance remotely convincing.  And for a book whose central theme is the great forbidden romance between two people who met at the wrong time, this is a great failure.So, in summation, if you are expecting to read a meaty historical that provides insight to what the circus life was like back during the 1930's, skip the book.  If you are a fan of Nicholas Sparks and looking for a sentimental love story to tide you over until his next publication, this may just be your cup of tea., overall|2|Negative
This was a great story line, but I really get disgusted with the writers that think they have a free license to use the Lord's name in vain. It has become a disgusting passtime and all too prevalent &#34;thing to do&#34;.  And why do they do it? It adds nothing to the story. Just a disgusted feeling and sorrorful feeling for the author. It shows how the people of the world are falling away from God. That is one thing I miss with my Kindle, I always use a black marker and mark out that word from the sentences or stop reading the book altogether., overall|2|Negative
Had not gotten around to reading the book when I had the opportunity to see the movie.  I doubt I'll ever bother to read this one.  Wasted money on it too as most of my downloaded books are free. Choose wisely., overall|2|Negative
I have no idea what the hoopla is about but I find this book to be just alright at best. It is a little slow. The characters didnt have any passion or oomph. It was just very blah to me. I do like Reese Witherspoon and Rob so maybe the movie will be more entertaining., overall|2|Negative
DON'T read this book if you're a sensitive soul with a love for animals. You'll likely find it very depressing., overall|2|Negative
This book was highly recommended to me by women in an assisted living facility where I teach, for whom one of the book themes--aging and loss of autonomy--resonated deeply. I found it an engaging read, though the story almost caves in under the weight of the author's research. The characters are archetypes I had the feeling I'd seen somewhere before, lacking complexity, and it was ultimately difficult to care about any of them. The shifts back and forth in time were distracting and superfluous. I felt manipulated by the fantastically sentimental ending, but still, it made me smile., overall|2|Negative
As I have stated before, one of my MANY quirks is that I must read a book before I watch the movie. When I read in Entertainment Weekly the Reese Witherspoon and Robert Pattison would be starring in the film adaptation of Water for Elephants, I knew that I had to pick it up. I rarely pay full price for a book. However, this one had such rave reviews that I couldn't help myself. Still, it sat on my bookcase until this week when I promised to read it before the opening of the movie. Honestly, I was greatly disappointed.Sara Gruen tells the story of Jacob Jankowski who is so distraught after his parents' deaths that he runs away with the circus. He leaves between his education at Cornell University and his future as a veterinarian. Fortunately, his study of veterinary medicine helps him land a job as the circus' vet. While touring with the circus he meets a number of characters from a red haired midget clown, to an old circus worker who is struck with \jake walk\ (a condition brought on by drinking tainted whiskey). Jacob soon discovers that life on the road is beyond trying. When an elephant is brought on as part of the show, Jacob finds himself torn between his job as a compassionate vet and the rules of the circus. This causes Jacob to bump heads with his boss, August, who is beyond temperamental and at times masochistic. To complicate matters, Jacob is in love with the lead actress of the show, Malena, who just happens to be August's wife.While the subject matter of the circus would seem to be incredibly interesting, this novel was boring from start to finish. The entire plot was cliched, the relationships were shallow, and the characters were without depth. From the first chapter, I knew the exact path that the novel was going to take. Every time I thought to put the book down, I convinced myself to give it one more chance. It was after all a bestseller, therefore, I thought it would get better. It never did. If anything, it got worse as every cliche was reinforced. The only twist came at the very end and was so absurd I had to re-read the last few pages three times over to make sure that I read it correctly. A book is only as good as its character development but in this novel there is no development. Though Jacob attempts to mature, he can't seem to figure out what his priorities are. Incidentally, neither can Gruen for she has Jacob bemoan his conflicting emotions between his love for Marlena and his feelings towards animal abuse. Fortunately for Jacob, the animals take their fate into their own hands which relieves Jacob of having to develop. I hope, for the box office's sake, that the movie fails to resemble the book. Either way, I will not be the first in line at the theater., overall|2|Negative
This book was easy reading, but was also kind of facile and read like a treatment for a movie script (and I am sure there will be a movie).  I think we were supposed to find crotchety old Jacob lovably cantankerous, but I just thought he was annoying.  The circus story (featuring young Jacob) was much better, but all it has is plot--characters don't really develop, writing is passable but not skilled., overall|2|Negative
This story started out good in e beginning.  About halfway through it became a little disturbing.  I felt like it lost the magic from the start oc, overall|2|Negative
The books feels like the author was writing it while she was running on the treadmill, sometimes things speed up so quickly you can tell the author just got really sick of the segment and wanted to move on with the storyline. It renders the main romance somewhat rushed and insincere, at least that's how I felt. Characters who have known each other for a very short time share passion and requited love for one another, vowing to be together forever when one of whom is still married.Some details like the villain being Jewish are completely impertinent to the story but makes you why exactly the author did that. The protagonist is lovable and portrayed in very positive light throughout the novel, but his actions are just as villainous and psychotic. At one point where the protagonist gets really jealous he climbs on the roof of a moving train while carrying a knife in his mouth, intending to kill the villain in a very really Indiana Joneseque segment that makes you giggle at how superficial the author's line of thought was.Without revealing too much, it's very close to Moulin Rouge, only without the interest, tempestuous music and theatricality. If you enjoy sappy romance novels you'll like it., overall|2|Negative
This book helped me remember the &#8220;good old days&#8220;. It was fun remembering how cheap things used to be. Sara helped me see what awaits me in the coming years of my life. It is a great read., overall|2|Negative
On the simplest level, all I can say is that it didn't amuse me and I couldn't force myself to finish it. But I'm a \hard sell\ for fiction, and I can see by the other reviews that many people loved it. Lucky them!On a slightly more analytic level, I'd say that what prevented me from enjoying the book was the \voice\ of the narrator, who is supposed to be a man in his nineties remembering his youth in the circus. I'm a man approaching seventy, with some circus experiences as a teenager in Iowa and as the father of a circus acrobat in the Cirque de Soleil era. I found the \voice\ of the narrator unconvincing, extremely unconvincing, as a male of the species and as a male American of the 1930s and 1940s. I couldn't get past that central implausibility. I found myself scoffing at the sensibilities of the pseudo-male narrator at every emotional turn of this quite melodramatic novel., overall|2|Negative
For months, everytime I was in a bookstore - I found that I would gravitate toward this book, read the back and place it back on the shelf.  I should have listened to my instinct.  After many positive recommendations from friends and reading the reviews, I relunctantly check the book out at the local library.  I started reading with an open mind.  After about 200 pages, I phone my friend to ask her if I was missing something, because I just didn't care of the story and I couldn't seem to find a connection with any of the characters.  At this point, she instructed me to stop reading - \because of you don't like it now, there isn't anything earth shattering that will happen that will make you change your mind.\  I didn't listen, and she was right., overall|2|Negative
Actually, come to think of it, my time would have been better spent staring at an hourglass.  This book was a soap opera in print.  The characters were mostly stereotypical, ergo predictable.  I don't think giving the ending away in the prologue was such a great idea, because I spent the next 330+ pages waiting for something (anything!) to happen in that vein.  Instead I found myself wading through pages of the author describing events such as tent raising, etc..  The romantic scenes were very campy.  During the first several chapters when the book's format became aparent, I thought it was very fascinating to have the elder scenes interspersed with the circus scenes.  It turns out that they didn't add much to the story, or even make me want to keep reading.  The writing in the elder scenes was amusing, and soon those chapters became my reward for reading the cirucs chapters.  The ending was perhaps the most aggravating aspect of this book.  Something about Gruen's description of circus life and all its attendant characters makes me think it highly unlikely that a modern-day cirucs manager would embrace a decrepit old man and rescue him from life at the rest home.  Maybe it was all those descriptions of redlighting we were given...I'm not sure.  All said, I enjoyed Gruen's writing style, but I would have enjoyed it much more telling a story with some substance., overall|2|Negative
I have to say that this book, was very much like a soap-opera. Everything was pretty predictable, and that ruined it. I have no clue why she choose this title, especially since Rosie doesn't play that much of a dominate role, (as was expected). What held this book together was the old Jacob, and just the curiousity, to make sure what you predicted was correct. Overall, I say if your looking for a fast read, enjoy., overall|2|Negative
I read this book a while back and I must agree with every 1,2 stars reviewer out there it is Overrated, plain and simple. I know a lot of people are interested in reading this book because of the recent Major Motion Picture starring Rob Pat and Reese Witherspoon.Oh, Well the premise of the story is quite interesting, an almost college graduate who runs away after his parents tragic death (nope this is not a spoiler it's in the back cover) only to join a traveling circus where he goes from a stable boy to the circus vet in a course of (well less than a year), and falls in love with a married showgirl named Marlena who is suffering under her abusive husband August (who is described as being schizophrenia but every psychologist will tell you he's just an aggressive, controlling jerk with anger management problems).So, this book has all the elements possible to make it a good read, Adventure, Romance, Drama, and forbidden love Blah Blah Blah !Adventure, Hardly ! Action (Well apart from the few scenes of hopping in and out of trains there's hardly any to count), Romance & Forbidden love ? (the romance element although seems to sum up a big part of the story even bigger than the circus is so contrived, lacking and unrealistic. The characters hardly hold a conversation to make us believe they belong together, I didn't care if Marlena and Jacob separated for life ! Actually I found myself hoping they would just to spice up the book from its predictable ultimate boring ending and I'm a person who loves happy endings) Circus Life ? Well, Yeah its there all right but the writing doesn't allow it to come to life. I never felt transported to the 193os, I never felt that I was in a circus. The descriptions were unfortunately very flat.The characters are the biggest disappointment in the book. They are two-dimensional at best as well as stereotypical. The Good guys are innocent, nice and bearing all the sufferings of the world on their shoulders and the bad guys are greedy jerks and a$$holes who only care about profit and the $$$ money !Some people were complaining about the Over the top sex scenes, Ahh, O.K ! I'm used to reading romance books heavy on sex scenes and this one doesn't even come close. I don't mind sex in books as long as there is a reason to it and as long as it is beautifully written. In here the characters are just flat out boring that they make sex and murder boring.Obviously none of them is sympathetic even Jacob who just lost his parents, we never get insight into his soul. We never knew for sure why or how was he driven by depression and shock after his parents death to leave all his life behind him and join a circus, we never even know how he recovered from the lost of his parents because he never show any signs of being sad or depressed. Marlena on the other hand, well she is in an abusive relationship so its O.K that she cheats on her husband with Jacob. It would've been rather interesting if her husband was actually a good man but she fell out of love with him and ran away with Jacob leaving the circus. Now that would've been a better conclusion !This book/author does the fatal mistake of telling instead of showing. We are told that this and that happens but we are never shown and therefore never transported. I give it 2 stars for entertainment value and because it was a fairly easy/fast paced book to read. However, other than that maybe I was expecting too much but this book is overhyped and frankly way overrated., overall|2|Negative
i found this book very hard to read sometime. I liked the love story. the cruel story of the animals being mistreated got to me and I had to skip some parts.for animal lovers don't read this., overall|2|Negative
I had high expectations for this, but it was kind of a chore to finish.  It was too depressing!  Too much brutality to the circus animals AND the circus humans, drunkenness, filth, squalor -- plus the portrait of life in the nursing home was grim.  When the narrator finally gets his true love, the author rushes through it in a few sentences and then goes back to the grimness.  I give her two stars because she's obviously done a lot of research on circuses, and I thought the photos were charming., overall|2|Negative
As a piece of light beach-reading, this is competent.  But it's also boring and flat, and the characters unbelievable.  It's very hard to locate the conflict for the first half of the book, and the shifts from the mind of a 93-year old to that of 23-year old is gimmicky and not at all convincing., overall|2|Negative
The book is extremely well written.  The descriptions are so vivid, you can almost smell the hay.  But it is filled with violence, vulgar language and sex which I guess is realistic considering the setting.  I read a few chapters but could not continue.  Returned it to the library., overall|2|Negative
Are you kidding me? This book was a best seller? It could have been written by a middle school student. I read this book in two days flat. The characters were very shallow. The only reason I'm giving it 2 stars is because parts of it were cute but overall it was a waste of my time., overall|2|Negative
I found this book fairly well crafted, but did not believe in the characters or the story, which seemed awfully thin and contrived. The author admits in a postscript that she borrowed extensively from old newspaper stories and made up composite characters based on real-life people and animals, which is close to plagiarism if you ask me. The main character, Jacob, who is 93, and tell the story in flashbacks, is much too lucid for his age to be credible, and Marlena, the woman he eventually steals, comes across as flat and uninteresting.Like other reviewers, I found the dialogue artificial and at times anachronistic. Haven't seen the movie but not much source material to work with., overall|2|Negative
Sara Gruen has an unbelievable capability of describing filth in all of it's trashy detail.  If you like gratuitously vulgar descriptions of adult scenes, this book is for you., overall|2|Negative
Though the plot occasionally compels page-turning, the author's tin ear for dialogue and the weak characterization make Water for Elephants much less exciting than one might expect given the hype that it has attracted., overall|2|Negative
As a small town child,I always loooked forward to the circus coming to town.I thought this book would bring back memories.However,I was greatly disappointed that the author toook what should have been a good family story and infiltrated it with sexual incidents that added nothing to the story.I suppose the author was trying to make the book more \saleable\ I would not recommend this book,most certainly not to young readers.What a ruination of what good have been a good story, overall|2|Negative
I really didn't like this book very much.  In its favor, it's well researched, but the crudeness of the characters and animal cruelty turned me off.  I'm sure it's very accurate in its portrayal of the times, I'd just rather read something uplifting.  I read it based on a recommendation from a family member.  I, on the other hand, would not recommend it., overall|2|Negative
I was excited to read this book, but I was disappointed in it. Maybe I expected too much because of all the hype and the movie coming about a month after I read it.The premise was great- a Cornell educated kid drops out during his exams due the death of his parents, and finds himself transported into the world of a circus train during the Great Depression. The story is told sort of as a flashback, it goes back and forth between Jacob as a \90 or 93 year old man\ and Jacob as a 23 year-old college dropout. It sets itself up to be touching, moving, etc., and it does take you back to a time that's grand and terrible. But it falls flat. The author could have done so much with Jacob, Marlena and August. The brightest spots of the novel are Jacob in old folks home- we really get to see his character there. Marlena was beautiful but boring, and August was brilliant but crazy. We see several spots where she could have gone deeper with all three characters, bur fails to so so.The author telegraphed the ending a mile away, but that era wasn't about happy endings. That era was about sadness, struggling and being down on your luck.The other bright spots of the novel occur when the author describes Rosie the elephant, and the ins and outs of the circus and how it works. It is clear she did a lot of research on how the circuses worked, and it was nice to be able to picture those details.The book had so much potential. I wish it would have been better., overall|2|Negative
So, this is the dreck that is passing for 'modern literature' these days? Honestly, after hearing some very good reviews about this books (actually, the reviews came to me via a co-worker who pressed a hand to her stomach, frowned and said, \my daughter and I loved this book\) I figured I would give it a try.The first sign that this was not going to wind up on my favorite book list was that after an hour or so of reading, I realized that I was more than 100 pages in. Normally when I'm reading, I pause occasionally to think, reflect, sympathize, emphasize, synthesize, etc, etc, etc. But alas, nothing deep and worthy of reflection was to be found. Nothing to stop me reading for a moment to think about what I'd just read. Not that I was expecting much, but I find myself more appreciative of a book, story, news article, movie or television show if it can make me think about at least something more than the words in front of my face. Again, not here. There was nothing to be found.Eventually, as the story continued and I learned more about Jacob and the circus, I can't say I was surprised when I found myself not caring one way or the other what was going to happen to him, or the rest of the circus bunch - there was nothing for me to connect myself to these characters with. If anything, the more I read, the more impressed I became with the author's ability to keep me so detached!In addition to the weak and utterly predictable story, (I mean, who didn't see that August was either bi-polar or a schizophrenic, that Marlena was going to get pregnant, or that Jacob's family wasn't going to show?), the dialogue comes out incredibly thin - to the point that I'm actually thinking that the author has never heard two people speak to one another. The dialogue comes across as forced and, for lack of a better term, soap opera-ish. I half expected to hear the dramatic soap opera bumper at the end of each chapter \will Jacob get the girl, will August find out about their illicit love affair and will Rosie finally learn English? Tune in next chapter..\But I digress. For everything I've stacked in the negative column about this book, there is one redeeming quality - and that is the story. I'm (somewhat) not ashamed to admit that I literally couldn't put this book down. It was like literary candy on a rainy day (actually a smoky day here in So-Cal). I picked up the book at 8am and set it down again around 10pm (having stopped for food, news updates, etc). Needless to say, I was disappointed.Overall, a good book for when you require some mindless entertainment - like sitting in an airport, or on death row.Finally, I was not impressed with the authors use of 'authentic circus lingo.' Apparently, she did some research. Well, I should hope so!, overall|2|Negative
It is actually a waste of time and money! The plot could be very good, but filled with sensual and detailed pornographic material it could do without!, overall|2|Negative
I purchased this book because it received great reviews from readers on amazon.com.  Truthfully, I was disappointed because I found the book rather dull.  There was very little action in the novel and I did not emphathize with any of the characters other than Jankowski in his 90s in the assisted living facility.  The insight provided into the \circus world\ of the Great Depression was interesting, but overall, I would not recommend the book., overall|2|Negative
This book has been hyped up by many of my friends. I was excited when the price was lower because I wanted to read it. It took me weeks to finish because I wasn't interested. There was too much \jump\ from one time period to another. I understand the Author's purpose, but I was truly disappointed., overall|2|Negative
I just can't get past chapter 5.  I bought this based on all the reviews.  Sadly, I must move on.  I alsways feel guilty for not finishing a book.  Even time at the beach did not help., overall|2|Negative
I had the opportunity to meet Sara Gruen recently. She came to Fort Collins because her German Shephard needed open heart surgery, and while she was in town, she held a discussion/book signing at a local bookstore. Something she said struck me as rather odd. She said that she wanted the old circus photographs included in her novel because she didn't feel her readers would believe what she had written without the pictures. I'm not sure why she would feel this way, because as many reviewers have noted, her descriptions of the circus where the strongest parts of this novel.This was a book that I wanted to like better, but after all was said and done, it didn't leave much of an impression, other than her extensive research. The story, particularly the love story, was cliched, and the entire plot is predictable. Additionally, some parts of the story don't seem plausible. *SPOILER* For example, why would Jacob walk away from an Ivy League degree, needing only to complete a final exam? Yes, his parents were killed, but he knows that they made great sacrifices for him to attend Cornell. And what are the odds that when he jumps onto a passing train in the middle of the night, it just happens to be a circus train?In addition to the predictable plot, it was hard to relate to any of thecliched characters. I think it says a lot when the most interesting character in the book is Rosie the elephant. Jacob displays little or no character growth. And the book has a typical \Hollywood\ ending where the good guys get everything they want, even though they've had to sacrifice virtually nothing. And some of the dialogue in this book reads like a romance novel.That said, there are flashes of quality in this novel. The sections that take place inside the nursing home are well done, and in fact, old Jacob is a more interesting character than young Jacob.I just wish that the author had taken as much care in plotting her book and developing her characters as she did in doing her research., overall|2|Negative
It wasn't obviously my type of book. Maybe it was because I had such a high expectation? The best part of the book was the author's note at the end. I enjoyed reading that., overall|2|Negative
I picked this novel up in the airport as I was waiting to get on my flight to Orlando, mostly because it is coming out as a movie and I wanted to read it before seeing the movie.  That's my general rule after all.  And I was sorely disappointed.In this historical novel, Jacob Jankowski, the protagonist, has left Vetrinary school at Cornell after suffering the loss of his parents, who have died in a tragic car accident.  He learns fairly quickly that his father, also a vet, was heavily in debt and actually died owing money.  So Jacob leaves school and his home and literally joins the circus. He travels cross country with the circus, acting as the show's vetrinarian and working under August, the head trainer and Uncle Al, the show's ringleader.  August is an interesting man, alternately charming and brutal.  He's also married to the beautiful Marlena, a performer, that Jacob forms a special bond with. This novel is about Jacob's relationship with Marlena, with the new elephant, Rosie and with Uncle Al.There are definitely several themes that are prevalent in this novel, which are super easy to pick out.  Water is for cleansing, for instance and the train tracks are for choosing a life path.I was not impressed by this book at all.  The themes were easy to spot and the ending was just as easy to spot.  The characters were shallow and one dimensional and I found myself annoyed with them more often than I was intrigued by them.  I just didn't really like it - I kept expecting it to get better and it didn't. It was a complete and utter failure., overall|2|Negative
This is a best seller and has been lauded by many as an accurate portrayal of circus life in the 1930s.  Perhaps this is true.I loved the narrator, an elderly gentleman who is living in a nursing home.  I related to his upsets about the way he is being treated and understood his desire to get himself to the circus which has pitched its tent across the street from the home.  I felt empathy of this old man and felt the several chapters relating to his present life were done well.Through his voice we learn his story in flashback and most of the book takes place in this circus in the 1920s when the old man was young.  As the fresh-faced new kid, he's a stereotype.  And so is the woman he falls in love with.  Problem is that she's married to the ringmaster.  How this all turns out is mildly interesting, especially the parts about the animals, but I kept hoping the book would get better and I would feel some empathy for someone.Therefore, while this book has a few good moments, I can't even give it a lukewarm recommendation., overall|2|Negative
UGH! The first couple chapters were wonderful. Then it went downhill so fast I thought I was reading another book. don't waste your money., overall|2|Negative
\Water for Elephants is fiction\, but the author clearly did her research, and so it's solidly based on the sad realities of life for both humans and animals working in circuses during the Depression.  But sadly, animal circuses haven't changed much since that time.  Human workers may no longer be \redlighted\, but captive wild animals are still packed into buses or trains without heat in winter or air conditioning in summer, imprisoned in cages or chained up, forced to perform demeaning tricks for the public, and given generally substandard, if any, medical care and often, not enough nourishment.Gruen can tell a story, she has vivid characters, she presented the animal characters in a sympathetic and favorable light, and I enjoyed the read.  But I have to say that to me, the happy ending of Jacob and Marlena finding employment with Ringling Brothers so they can bring Rosie, Bobo and the horses along with them is anything but.  Admittedly, for those times, it may have been the only option open to them, and there were few if any animal protection advocates out there exposing circuses like Ringling.  The truth is that Ringling Brothers has a long history of well-documented animal abuse, particularly of elephants, something Ms. Gruen never refers to in her novel--although, to her credit, she talks about the infamous, unbelievably cruel execution of Topsy by electrocution of none other than American paragon Thomas Edison.  It's also quite unrealistic that they would be able to keep an adult chimp as a pet, especially with five children of their own to care for and protect.  Chimps become quite intractable as adults; they're extremely strong, unpredictable and dangerous.I can't help thinking that the happy ending to a circus novel set in the 21st century would have Rosie sent to a place like The Elephant Sanctuary to spend her remaining life blissfully roaming hundreds of acres with other former circus and zoo elephants, and Bobo retiring to a wonderful sanctuary like Save the Chimps, where he would join a chimp family and have the closest thing to a normal life a captive ape can have.  And Jacob getting a job at a zoo so he can take Rosie along after his circus career is also not a very cheery outcome for me.  There's no question that zoo elephants lead short, painful, highly restricted lives, and many zoos are in the process of retiring their elephants to sanctuaries.Also, it's quite unbelievable to me that after Jacob witnessed so much brutality while working for circuses earlier in his life, he would want to join a circus again rather than live in a nursing home.  That speaks volumes about that nursing home!Lastly, I understand that the author considers herself an animal lover, but that can mean a lot of things, and I'm wondering exactly what her agenda was, writing this book., overall|2|Negative
After all the hype about this book, I finally gave in to reading a borrowed copy. I wanted to like it, truly I did.  I made it to page 164 with some effort.  The characters were not developed well enough for me to like them.  Also, I work with elderly people and the narrator as an elderly man was not altogether believable.What I did enjoy was learning a bit about the circus business  back in the 30s.Please if you know of some real 5-star novels, non-romance, let me know., overall|2|Negative
Although the story is quite intriguing and the juxtaposition of Jacob's life in a nursing home with his life as a young vet at the circus is a clever way to tell the story, the hardships that the animals endure are quite upsetting. I had to stop reading this book when August decided to take his anger out on Rosie, the elephant, because his wife who had never ridden an elephant was injured during Rosie's first performance, a performance for which neither one had trained. Circus trainer's used a bull hook to cause pain to the elephant so that it would do what they wanted it to do - I don't know the extent to which he tortured the elephant with the bull hook but I didn't want to find out.In terms of the writing style it is not the best. I believe the books' popularity may have more to do with the scenes in the nursing home which are much better written than those of the circus and touch the lives of many of us who have had to put our parents in or have visited these institutions., overall|2|Negative
This book just wasn't for me. Its not the writing at all. It's very descriptive and written very well. It's just too dark and depressing for my taste. It put me in a funk. I don't recommend reading this unless you don't mind reading a good story with a whole bunch of downer situations., overall|2|Negative
Going to see this movie about a tyrant psycho circus owner who beats elephants till they bleed and abuses his workers cannot bring any more hope to a world already drowning in stories of despair. I hope the book was better., overall|2|Negative
Saw the movie first and was excited to read the book next. Very disappointed about the book. The movie carried the story line so much better. The worst thing about the book was the main character. In the movie at least they made him out to be a real hero. In the book he seems like a complete jerk., overall|2|Negative
Life behind the scenes at the circus was crude and inhumane;I will always view it differently!  The 90 year old man telling the story reacted the same way I would have...stomach distress.  Should be rated R for sexual and other graphic language. I do not reccommend it for sensitive, caring women., overall|2|Negative
While I enjoyed the beginning of the story,I could not get through this book due to the animal abuse (I am an animal lover!) Even though it's a work of fiction I just didn't like that!!! Plus Marlena's character was flat,boring and left a lot to be desired!!! The movie is WAY better! Save yourself the time,and don't bother. This book was made to be WAY more of a big deal then it actually is., overall|2|Negative
It was an ok book.  although, I was expecting something a little more.  The book seem to drag on.  when it did end it ended very sadly., overall|2|Negative
This book just wasn't my cup of tea.  It was recommended by a friend that usually has the exact same taste in books I do.  There isn't anything specific I can say except I didn't like it., overall|2|Negative
Last week, halfway through my own reading of WATER FOR ELEPHANTS, I decided to check the customer reviews to see if any other readers were rolling their eyes as much as I was, and, to my surprise, not many were.  300 hundred reviews and most of them were five stars!  What seemed paper-thin and kind of ridiculous to me was \beautiful and moving\ to nearly everyone else.  Everything about this book seemed like a cheat--like the warning you get on a bag of chips--\contents may settle\--to explain how there are only three chips in a family-sized bag.  Even the inclusion of the period photographs seemed to excuse the writer for not making clear enough pictures of her own.  It's not just the implausibility of the story either (elephant speaks only Polish).  If the details are right, I can be drawn into even the most ridiculous of stories (THE RUINS and THE TERROR come to mind)), but the paragraphs here are so flimsy (usually no more than three sentences long) that I never pictured (or believed) a word of it.  I'd close the book and pick it up a few hours later and have absolutely no idea what had happened.  It was an \easy read,\ but I don't know many writers who would consider that a compliment., overall|2|Negative
Sara Gruen did exhaustive research for her novel, Water for Elephants. But all went for naught to this reader. The story never became real to me. The characters were pasteboard figures. I was aware of the author too much, behind the scenes, pulling the levers. It seemed like a very \American\ book- for people with short attention spans.All in all, characterization was thin; narrative was thin, and the whole experience of reading the novel did not transport me to another world., overall|2|Negative
Water for Elephants by Sara Gruen is a book narrated by the memories of an old man in a nursing home flashing back to his life as a young vet on a travelling circus. Its based in the 1930s when the circus travelled by train into towns, to show off sideshow freaks and animal shows.What can I say about this book, it just didn&#8217;t grab me really and was a bit of a disappointment. The way it was written was very plain English and didn&#8217;t hold my attention or amuse me with the words. The talk about the animals and circus life was interesting and well researched. But the love story just wasn&#8217;t believable &#8211; the beautiful starlet falling for the pimply red headed virgin boy &#8211; nope don&#8217;t buy it sorry!I would recommend this book for animal lovers, young teens and the older generations as it has a mix from both sides of the story., overall|2|Negative
I read this book on my kindle a week after watching the movie and I have to say I enjoyed the movie a lot more. They did a number of adaptations for the screenplay that made it work better. Like August was the owner in the movie, but in the book he wasn't but he was in charge of the animals and Uncle Al was the owner. At any rate, the movie was made for a PG-13 rating and though there were some mild situations and language, it was tolerable, vs. the book, where there was a lot of swearing and a few lewd descriptions that weren't necessary for the story in order for it to be a good one. If not for the cheesy sexual stuff and multiple F-bombs dropped, I would have enjoyed the book more. The story itself is quite good, but the delivery of it was lacking because of the language and overly-detailed sexual situations. So if I were to recommend one, I'd tell people to choose the movie over the book. It's less crude, and ultimately, a more satisfying experience. The story structure itself reminded me a lot of The Notebook by Nicholas Sparks., overall|2|Negative
I endured this inartful, trite novel from beginning to end and I'm baffled by its popularity. Even as a peek into a fringe society it lacks any surprises. Frustratingly boring., overall|2|Negative
I had to force myself to finish this and was continually disgusted with the animal cruelty. Maybe I should have stuck w/the gut instinct that I don't usually care for historical fiction? Gruen's insight into the minds of the aging is wonderful - she should have written something focusing on that. This book could also have been about 75 pages shorter and was painfully slow at times. The writing was not \stellar\ - I just don't see all the hype but for the millions that loved it I'm glad for you - just be prepared if you haven't read it to wince w/some of the scenes., overall|2|Negative
MILD SPOILERS--I'm a little confused as to why this novel is classified as literary fiction, as it's lacking the strong character development and emotional complexity that most literary fiction strives for.  I'm aware I'm in the minority, but I can't honestly say I enjoyed this book.  It was very predictable, and the characters were wooden.  Marlena has zero depth--and Joseph isn't much better.  They fall in love, but it seems more like the affair happens because the author wrote it into the plot, not because these were two developed, real people whose minds and hearts shared something magical.  A few of the secondary characters have more detail, but they never go beyond superficial personality traits.The elephant is the absolute best part, and once I read that Gruen was inspired by old stories and photographs of real circus elephants and performers, I wished she'd gone ahead and written a non-fiction book so she could really delve into the struggle of the era and the horrible treatment of these animals.  She makes aspects of the circus interesting--in fact, that's why I kept reading even after I'd given up on the story having any real complexity or resonance, but the whole book is littered with anachronistic language that disturbs the realism she's aiming for.She's trying to get at some very deep issues (mental illness, extra-marital affairs, spousal abuse, the traumas of the Great Depression) but it's all very superficial.  She never quite digs deep enough to give these real complexity or power, so all of the characters have very obvious, stereotypical, predictably shallow reactions to these deep issues, and I was left feeling a bit like I was reading a kid's slightly juvenile interpretation of events.  Overall, disappointing and even a little simplistic.  The frame of Joseph in the old folks' home is the richest and most emotionally complicated part of the text--until the ending, which is utterly unrealistic and saccharine., overall|2|Negative
This is quite an unusual book, but the story is told very well. I recommended it to friends., overall|2|Negative
This book is an easy read - a straightforward, uncomplicated, simple story sprinkled with profanity, violence, animal cruelty, and sex.  I think if you like books about the downside of humanity then this book might interest you.  There's plenty of examples of human and animal exploitation.  The \love story\ aspect between Marlena and Jacob is lackluster at best., overall|2|Negative
The book is okay so far, but I'm very distracted by the horrible Kindle formatting.  I've never had a problem with a Kindle book before, but this one is full of gaps and spacing problems. Dialogue is separated by abnormally huge gaps, but author-intended spaces intended to denote a pause are the same gaps as the extraneous ones; in other words, the intentional spaces are lost in the shuffle.  This makes the book very hard to read and follow, since I'm never sure if it's a \Kindle\ gap or an \author\ gap.  This was very poorly digitized.  It almost makes the book unreadable because it is such a distraction., overall|2|Negative
For all the hype this gets I expected much better writing.  I cringed at the fact that the 'hero' of the story never stepped in to help the animal he loved so much when it was savagely beaten by the 'simon legree' type circus overseer.  It is only by the grace of the writer that the elephant didn't strike out at all of the obnoxious people who let the beatings occur!Some of the other reviews say much of what I thought about this book and the writing.  The characters are thin, not lovable, not anyone I root for ... with the one exception of the hero as an old man.  That is better done than any of the rest.The interaction of him with the nurse, Rosemary, is more real than that with Marlena.  I don't recommend this book for those who want good writing.  This is rather amateurish in so many ways.  I do admire that the author did the research... but her execution of the story and the story line leave a lot to be desired.  I felt the writing and plot itself wasn't much above that of a 'bodice ripper'.  I was disappointed., overall|2|Negative
The books is an easy read with an interesting plot. Characters are not that interesting and the quality of writing is overrated., overall|2|Negative
Okay... I'll admit I was drawn to this book by the upcoming movie previews and, like most, I had to read it prior to the films release.There is no way the written word will outshine the movie this time. It can't and won't even come close. The character's alone, (Reese Witherspoon and Robert Pattinson) will redeem the satirical shallowness and cliched style simply with their screen presence.As with many of the comments already noted, this book is just not believable. I can totally comprehend how Rosie, an ginormous creature can pull a stake from the ground, okay... even sneek away for a drink or two or ten. But please, pulling the stake and splitting a skull in the midst of such chaos??? I think a more realistic death for him would have been...death by stampede!But more importantly (at least for me)... I would love a comment from ANYONE who can tell me how the Bible's story of Jacob (Genesis) was incorporated into this novel! Did I miss something??? I just don't get it! I say!, overall|2|Negative
I'm not picky about my books, really! I read airport books! I read mystery novels! But about half-way through, Water for Elephant's 2-dimensional, unrealistic characters' bad soap opera conversations became too tedious and repetitious.  I slogged through, anyway. I was waiting for more elephant plot. But no- Ms. Gruen got even lazier at the end.  Anything and anyone that might have been considered a loose end gets killed off without regret.  \Mr. Major Character W? We threw him off the train 30 minutes ago. Probably(!!) died. Don't worry about it.\I was disappointed., overall|2|Negative
Very disappointing - if you are an animal lover - don't bother purchasing this book.  I don't think I even got half way because of disturbing animal accounts., overall|2|Negative
This a book. Written to the end.Way to go. If you make it that far and you didn't wish for the time back, congrats on your five-star review. The rest of you can join us behind the menagerie tent for a smoke.If you're interested in reading something about road shows that's real, dig back to the source material.  Read Geek Love if you have the stones. And then write a note to Katherine Dunn for opening the tent flap., overall|2|Negative
Not my kind of story;  read a few chapters after recommendation by a friend,  but never could get into it!, overall|2|Negative
This would have been a great young adult fiction book. However, the author, for some reason, was really into nasty words and graphic sex. Too bad she took the low road and destroyed her book. I don't understand all the people who thought it was brilliant - it was just \dirty.\ However, it had potential., overall|2|Negative
This is the type of novel I expect to be on the bestseller list and is why I typically overlook popular novels, sometimes to my own detriment. An elderly man, now in a nursing home, looks back on his time spent as a veterinarian in a circus. It's a story that could have been capable of more, but the plot seemed fairly predictable and the characters not that believable or rounded. It wasn't bad, mind you, I guess you could say this elephant was just too watered down., overall|2|Negative
This book came recommended to me by a couple of friends, but I won't recommend it to anyone else as long as there are plenty of other decent books to read out there.It was relatively engaging in that I wasn't bored.  And it has a lot of potential.  But when I reflected on the story as a whole, I realized it didn't accomplish anything interesting, significant, intelligently complex.  I found it absolutely laughable that it had book club discussion questions at the end. For the life of me, I don't know what there is to dissect, analyze, or discuss about it!I never felt emotionally connected to any of the characters, except for the old man's musings at the beginning on growing old and being ignored by family in the midst of their own busy-ness.  Frankly, I was surprised that the love story ended up the way it did because I didn't realize the \love story\ part of it was actually to be taken seriously.  The couple was so flat and void of chemistry.I didn't appreciate that the book started with a future event only to get to that actual part of the story and learn that it was quite different from what the prologue led me to believe.  That kind of fake-out should be reserved for 1-hour TV shows, not books.  It was sloppy and it set me as the reader on the wrong course for the rest of the book.About 2/3 of the way through the book, I was just pushing through to finish it and say I finished it.  Sometimes a book can redeem itself in the end, but this ending was too ridiculous for redemption.I've read some good modern fiction recently, but this doesn't make the list.  It's a real shame it's going to get a bump in revenue because of the movie -- and because it's a Robert Pattinson movie at that.  (sigh), overall|2|Negative
2000 readers can't be wrong can they?  Umm, yea they might be.How is it that a mediocre book can consistently get raves?I was excited by the \prospect\ of this book but the more I read, the more resigned I became to the fact that there was nothing very extraordinary about it.Not only is the writing flat and the plot a giant cliche - there's also the matter of the central \love\ triangle being blatantly lifted from Sophie's Choice (I cringe referring to that classic alongside this book) right down to the suprise party / angry accusation by a lunatic.Mediocrity is being rewarded with a big Hollywood movie starring Reese Witherspoon.  Ahh, American pop culture., overall|2|Negative
After reading Water for Elephants when it was first published and then reading it again this week for book club it is no more clear than it was the first time.  The first scene describes the stampeed and then it is remembered a different way later in the novel.  Historic fiction?  Ok, there have always been a traveling circus of some sort and circus performers--that's as historical as I can get from this.  Seems like the \break\ (no pun intended) that the author had to take between writing the first half and finishing the novel was a memory fading event.  From the reviews with so many enjoying this novel I can only surmise that those are from fond memories of seeing the circus (which we did as children in Indiana many years ago--Shriner's Circus - makes me sentimental for my Grandparents) and not necessarily this novel.  Sorry, I wanted to love this book but just couldn't get by the \change in memory\.  I will say that the flow between old and young memories other than the biggie were pretty fluent., overall|2|Negative
The movie was okay but the book was very sexual and this was assigned for my daughter to read. Not happy, overall|2|Negative
I found this book very slow and hard to get into for the whole first half, then when things started moving along it seemed to end so quickly and violently., overall|2|Negative
If you like adventure, romance, suspense, and excitement... read the last third of Water for Elephants. The first two-thirds set the stage for a thrilling ending, but that's all. Although Gruen's style of writing is rich with varied vocabulary and description, the elements of the first part of the plot evoke little to no emotion in the reader. Even if the author didn't spend a hundred pages building the back-story, the strange sexual elements that rear their ugly faces every few pages completely ruin the enjoyment of reading this book. If you want to spend 300 pages wondering why you're reading this story, then pick up Water for Elephants and enjoy the most boring story you have ever read., overall|2|Negative
I decided to finally read this book after hearing all the \hoop-la\ about the movie.  And, it was exactly what I assumed it was after reading several non-Amazon reviews.This book is interesting for this time period because of its subject matter,a love story set in a circus in 1930's USA. This subject is unusual for this time because circuses are rarely written about anymore.  I enjoyed the author's inclusion of some research she'd done on the history of circuses.  However, I didn't feel that any of the characters was developed enough to catch and hold the reader's interest such as is found in the \I couldn't put it down\ genre of books.  Also, I felt that the story being told by a 93 yr. old man, in the first person, was distracting in its flipping back and forth in two time periods.  I couldn't understand what the need was for the old man in the story unless it was for the bitter-sweet, totally unrealistic end.This book should be advertised by Amazon as a book for young adults.  It just does not have the depth and dedication to story as those of more experienced, and more interesting, writers., overall|2|Negative
While it kept my attention for the most part, I was over all disappointed.While heavy on circus life, dismal on veterinary facts.  Portrays a man whom is thinking with his penis and not his brain, a insult to men in general.For a title of \Water for Elephants\  don't expect him to be sympathetic to them.He is more concerned about his love life, then the cruelty to the animals under his care., overall|2|Negative
This book is okay if you like fighting, bickering, jealousy, adultry, and just plain nasty acting people. The circus did not play that big of a role in this book. The book concenstrates more on Jacob's personal life and his lust for the bosses wife. Jacob, now an old man, begins the book by going back into his youth to the time he was attending vet school.  Tragic events turn his life upside down and he decides to run (literally).  He winds up with a circus and becomes the circus vet, although, he rarely spent any time with or working on the animals. He just stood and watched animals be slaughtered and then felt bad that he did not do anything. I did not like Jacob. I thought he was a spinless whimp and coward. His only concern was the bosses wife and how he could get her. I must say, however, the ending was terrific! That probably was the highlight of the book. I do not see what all the excitement was about.  If you want to read a life changing book, read \The Shack\.  Water for Elephants, in my opinion, is mostly garbage., overall|2|Negative
I didn't like this book...I found it depressing and the whole thing just one big sad story. One thing it changed was I will not be going to any circus anytime soon., overall|2|Negative
With all the positive ratings I had high hopes for this book. But, alas, I couldn't help wondering what all the fuss was about. I found the story fairly boring and eventually couldn't wait to be done with it. It's another romance, set in a circus. The characters were not that appealing and the book could probably have been condensed to half the verbage. Suffice it to say I didn't like it., overall|2|Negative
The best part of this novel is the portion in the present day when the main character is an elderly man.  His flashbacks tell a story of an impetuous and hard-to-sympathize-with attraction to a married woman and his painful experiences working for a circus under a couple of bad guys, including a sadist who abuses animals and people alike.  Throw in a fantasy-like description of an elephant's intelligence and abilities, and you can decide if it's your type of story.I read some of the good reviews to try to figure out what the draw is from this book, and I still don't get it.  It was a chore to read, and the only reason I finished it is because it is so popular I assumed I would finally appreciate something about it., overall|2|Negative
I know several people who have read this and loved it.  I just could not get into it.  It is a good story, but that is about it.  I expected a lot more depth to the story based on all of the hype is was receiving.  I was very disappointed in the end.  It is not something I would recommend to others., overall|2|Negative
I did not like this book at all...I thought it cruel..even in fiction ...i do not like reading about people who torment simply because they can...i couldn't finish this novel..., overall|2|Negative
Water for Elephants presents the memories of a 90-something circus veterinarian about the events leading up to his marriage to a star of the show. The novel's language flows beautifully from start to finish, making it an easy vacation read. Circus industry vernacular sets the story persuasively, though other reviewers have noted implausibilities. Determined fault finders could ponder why the author downplays the relationships of circuses with the locals, railroading lore, and depression era culture. But at some point these details would get in the way of telling a good story.While the ending is touching, the climax proceeds from one wrong note to another. The protagonist woos a married woman, uses her husband's outrage for justification, and undertakes an attack too far out of character. Most of the protagonist's friends are conveniently written off as the author describes 'redlighting' (health care we can all afford without the dad-burn gummint) where sick people and their friends are thrown under the train in the dark. The antagonists are killed off the next day, in even more unlikely \Acts of God\ executed and covered up by various animals. The speed at which the plot moves here may carry a movie viewer, but I found myself thinking \I can't put this down right now, not because it's great, but because there won't be a plausible place for me to pick it up again.\Memories are notoriously convenient, self serving, or over dramatizing. So others might give this book more stars for its portrayal of the geriatric mind. Killing off most of the actors resolves the plot within the time constraints of TV or movies, at the cost of satisfying character development. Those who write from outlines will feel cheated that the author didn't plan ahead.Injustice distresses casual readers. Extreme events in near-immediate retribution for evil motives will jar readers who seek plausibility. Unpunished sins of the protagonist claw at the human desire for balance. But the fast transition back to faded memories of the next few years does imitate an older person's memories. So when the book reaches its touchingly implausible conclusion, lots of readers may finish feeling satisfied., overall|2|Negative
Combine research into the American train circus, a prose style that is about as sophisticated and threatening as Velveeta cheese, utterly one-dimensional characters, and a storyline that does move steadily along, and what do you get?  A best-seller., overall|2|Negative
I did not find this book as good as other readers. I would not have read it if it didn't get the great reviews.  T was disappointing.  The love story and some of the historic events of the circus were interesting.  found the descriptive animal abuse very upsetting.  I'm definitely not interested in seeing the movie., overall|2|Negative
I didn't feel any of the connection between the characters in this story.  It seemed like an escape from their present situation more than true love., overall|2|Negative
I simply don't understand the fanfare.  Every bit of this story was heartbreaking.  The animal abuse (especially Rosie), the human abuse (Walter and Camel, especially), and all of the heartbreaking things that happened at the hands of certain men.  What was there to enjoy about this story?  Revenge at the end?  Ok, so I liked the last 3 pages.  But those last 3 pages didn't make up for my sadness throughout the whole of this book.  I wish I hadn't read it., overall|2|Negative
I'd rather not try to pick thru profanity to get to a story.If it wasn't so vulgar, it might have been a good book., overall|2|Negative
Fortunately, I didn't pay full price for this book; I borrowed it on my Kindle through my Prime membership.The author found some interesting true circus stories but wove them together poorly. The book read like a treatment for a screenplay, in that it seemed less like a novel than an attempt to sell a script to Hollywood. The characters all sounded the same, and the dialogue was too modern for the time period of the novel. I have not seen the movie, but I think it would at least be visually interesting to distract from the plot. The love story is barely believable and the villains are archetypes--you've seen them before.Not very deep, but the animals are interesting. Much more so than the people., overall|2|Negative
I was given this book by a friend that insisted that I read it, \It was fabulous\.  I read about 100 pages of it and set it down which is something I rarely ever do.  A couple months go by and I was at a party where a couple people again said what a great book it was.  I decided I had to give it another try so I picked it back up and continued to read it.  At the end, I still don't understand the love of this book.  I didn't care for the animal brutality and I just never connected with the characters in this book., overall|2|Negative
The highly improbable plot and characters were a disappointment.  This was not a fun book!, overall|2|Negative
I bought this book based on the recommendations from amazon.  I found the book difficult to get through until the last 100 pages.  The story is slow and simply tedious.  I had to force myself through it. The end of the story, about 200-250 pages in, it picks up a bit and becomes more fast paced and readable., overall|2|Negative
A little book made for making a film, I felt. A bit shallow and predictable. Characters unbelievable somehow. Not challenging in anyway., overall|3|Negative
I was eager to read this book after all of the praise it has received. I wasn't necessarily disappointed but not exactly getting all the hype. I enjoyed the visual scenes that Gruen painted and could easily picture it. I just couldn't get past the story.  I didn't feel an immediate chemistry between Jacob and Marlena. I'm sorry if most other people disagree with me, but the 'heat' just wasn't truly there for me. At times I almost felt that Jacob only attracted Marlena due to his difference to August, not due to the actual love between them. While I also enjoyed the perspective of Jacob as an old man remembering his story, it really just left me sad whenever I read scenes from the older Jacob's perspective. He seemed so unhappy and it made me feel as if I were reading two stories, one with a happy ending and one with a sad ending. In all, I gave this story 3 stars because I felt that perhaps if it wasn't being sold as a love story I would have appreciated it more. Instead I am left wondering what was so noteworthy about the characters love beyond the fact that they supposedly found love while working on a circus., overall|3|Negative
There are books you read for the story, and books you read for the writing.  Water for Elephants is of the former variety.  It's a quick read and a good read, but it is not a great book.Ms. Gruen was thorough in her research, so the reader does get some feeling for the gritty world of the \train circus\, yet I felt when I finished the book that I had no clear sense of who the characters were.  Jacob is a nebulous character as a young man, and a shallow one in old age.  As for the rest of the \cast\, well, when they are good they are very very good, and when they are bad they are...monsters.  Rosie the elephant is one of the more developed characters!The author doesn't seem to have a good ear for speech, either.  Any of the book's dialog could come from any character's mouth, for the most part, and some of the things Jacob says (or says in his mind) as an old man seem to land with a clunk.  They just don't fit.Add to that a slightly corny ending and a structure that comes out of any pulp murder mystery (old person recalling a murder, then going back to the start of the story and working back up to the murder...with a twist), and you get just a middling-good book.I am vehemently against the use (abuse) of animals in circuses, so I was happy to see that animal abuse was part of this story.  In fact, I think the author cleaned it up a bit too much (few facts about the orangutan and the chimpanzee, for instance..it's sickening what the higher apes were subject to, and still are).  What I think she could have cut back on is the gratuitous details about sex and the cooch tent.  That all seemed tacked on and unnessesary.Overall, I consider this book worth reading, but I don't see what all the excitement is about.  If you really want a feeling for circus sideshow life, read the novel Geek Love., overall|3|Negative
It was a good book, with parts that sort of jarred my sensibilities.  I enjoyed the story and the backdrop to it.  I learned more about early American Circus.  I also liked the elderly aspect to it as well.  I would not read it again, but I would discourage some one else reading it.  Once I started, I could not stop., overall|3|Negative
With the making of a Film based on this book and all of the rave reviews about it, I guess I had high expectations.  Don't get me wrong, I found most of it entertaining, but I think the story lacked in its development, and I never figured out why religion was ever even brought up among the characters in the earlier part of the book, when it apparently had nothing to do with the plot. The ending was also a bit of a let-down because it was just too \happily ever after\ for me.The funny thing is that I'm not a big fan of Circuses in general, but surprisingly, I found the source material to be rather fascinating,  So, if anything, this book will propel me to look into more historical reading material on Circuses from the 19th century to the turn of the 20th Century., overall|3|Negative
I hope the movie is more interesting then the book. It had its moments but if its price goes any higher on here I would recommend not bothering. It seemed a little generic., overall|3|Negative
IT'S BEEN TOO LONG AGO TO GIVE A REVIEW, overall|3|Negative
Much dead space or predictable non-action could have been eliminated to make this a good short story.  Pace was much too slow., overall|3|Negative
I am an avid reader, and ALWAYS like a book better than the movie based on it.  This time, that was not the case.  It was just okay, but had I not seen the movie I probably would have loved it., overall|3|Negative
I had a hard time getting through the book, so I gave up and just watched the movie.  I enjoyed the movie although it was so sad., overall|3|Negative
I agree with many of this book's reviews.  They're right; the author does make you empathize with her characters.  When reading, I felt like I was right with the characters, watching them.  Many reviewers also emphasize and appreciate the book's unusual story.  The story really does have wonderful historical flavor.  Most of the characters participate in a 1930s traveling circus, and reading about this circus-society is entertaining and informative.Now, for all of that, the book's writing was nothing extraordinary.  While Sara Gruen tells a unique story, she is not a unique storyteller.  Her writing was too common for me, too similar to the writing styles of so many authors who are currently alive.As I was reading, I kept asking myself, \Have I read anything by this author before?\  The truth was, I had never read anything else by her.  But I felt like I had, because her writing style and word choices were nothing new to me.I imagine that, in a couple years, I won't be able to remember reading this book.  Perhaps I'll hear someone talk about it, and I'll get a feeling of deja-vu and say, \Oh yeah.  I think I might have read something like that, at some point.\Again, don't get me wrong; this was an engaging book.  It was entertaining, and I cared about the characters.  It was a good read, and well worth my time.  I happily recommend it to people who want to be entertained, and who might like to read about the circus.  Just don't expect anything amazing.Oh, and if you don't like violence or scenes with sexual content, you should probably stay away.  I don't mind these things - this doesn't affect my rating - but I figured a warning was warranted., overall|3|Negative
I was so excited about this book. Something about it really made me want to love it. I bought the hardcover, which is something I never do, because I didn't want to wait for the paperback edition. I should have saved my money.The story was interesting enough and it certainly kept me engaged for the entirety of the novel. I would have liked the detail to be more fleshed out. Some parts seemed to be rushed (like the ending) while others were oddly long. I also think it was easy to tell that it was a woman attempting to write from a male perspective and while sometimes that works out fine this time something seemed a bit off.Still the book was fine and everything came full circle. The ending was neat and tidy, but really not a bit realistic. If you are looking for a quick read this would fit the bill, but it's not a book I'm keeping around and I certainly wouldn't read it again., overall|3|Negative
I enjoyed this book but I hate to say it, I enjoyed the movie more.  The story is lovely, an old man reminiscing of his days in the traveling circus.  Somehow, the story just tells better visually.  I found the use of present tense in the book just doesn't work.  I felt bored in parts where the author used unnecessary details during action sequences.  Overall, it's an original idea so kudos to the author for that!, overall|3|Negative
I am so tired of first person narratives, so maybe my complaint about his book isn't objective. All the \I, I, I, I,\ really got on my nerves. The movie was so much better because I didn't have to read the word, \I\ anymore. The book also contains a lot of offensive language, which didn't seem to fit the era. The story line was interesting and moved along at a nice pace., overall|3|Negative
I expected more substance, but it's not there.  Still, reasonably well written and easily read--like (or with) a light pinot grigio., overall|3|Negative
I liked this story and I think others will, too.  It has a good plot and interesting characters.  I just don't consider it is one of the best books I've ever read., overall|3|Negative
Maybe I'm missing the bandwagon (no pun intended), but all these reviews that say \amazing\, \best book I've ever read\, etc.??  I don't get that.  I was drawn to the story and the characters, and it was well-written.  It was an easy read, so I finished it in a day and a half.  However, I don't consider it anything more than a fun read--something good for the beach or the plane. I'm defintely not seeing the hype., overall|3|Negative
An interesting way to showcase circus history & a way of life that is no more.Although this is a fictionalized account, it was based on bits & pieces of fact from Circus History.The photographs were the best.They were a nice addition to the book.The nursing home drama/tie-in was a bit too much.I guess it was a play on the theme of running away to join the circus...Just never heard of someone who ran away from a nursing home in a wheel chair to join the circus & was successful with it!, overall|3|Negative
I enjoyed this book but did not feel it quite lived up to the high ratings I based my purchase on. Part of its appeal was the promise of a circus story. And the story was very realistic in some ways, detailing how difficult and unrewarding (not to mention very dangerous)that life could be.Some of the most interesting and moving parts of the book were actually those that took place in the nursing home that Jacob now lives in, remembering his youth with the circus. The author did a great job in describing the sadness, loneliness and other problems that befall the very aged. Especially those nearly forgotten by their families. Their cold treatment at the hands of people who barely see these elderly souls as human is all too real, having witnessed this myself when working in this type of facility. And another reason why I got out of nursing.The love story was so-so, and years were wrapped up too quickly, at least for my taste. I looked forward to more stories of Jacob as the circus veterinarian. There was alot of potential there for interesting and moving stories about the animals, but that aspect was barely touched upon. Rather it was more about Jacob's obsession with the beautiful Marlena.I loved many of the interesting characters, but always felt I did not quite know them in spite of their frequent appearances throughout the story. Walter the dwarf as an example. He was one of my favorite characters. I found myself wanting more of his own story, but it wasn't there.I would recommend this as a light summer read, but would not look for more than an interesting diversion and brief look into the world of the circus folk when the animals were still transported by train and when the circus coming to town was the biggest news of the month., overall|3|Negative
Didn't love this one as much as the other reviewers.  Some good moments with dialogue and plot but that I just didn't find myself enthralled by the story. It was a little slow at times. Kept putting it down and picking it up. Just all right., overall|3|Negative
I looked at the reviews before purchasing this book - I thought I would love it. As it turned out, I had a hard time getting into the book. Once I finished it, I watched the movie to tie in the parts that I didn't get. It was not horrible, just not my taste., overall|3|Negative
The imagery of the circus was incredible.  The story of the ninety year old version of Jacob was compelling and touching but I found the actual story of the younger Jacob J. lacking depth and development.  Overall it was an ok read and I'm glad I read the book., overall|3|Negative
i just got done reading this and i was enjoying it till about half way thru.  then it became immensely boring to me and i kdpt reading only to say that i finished it.  i really don't think it had much of a plot and i feel the ending was kind of just \wrapped up\ quickly.  it started out very hopeful, but in the end, not one of my favorite reads., overall|3|Negative
I liked the book although a bit depressing and if you are an animal lover some of the references to how the animals in the circus are treated can make you a bit uncomfortable.  What I didn't like was the ending - it ended quickly and on this high note that seemed forced (don't want to spoil anything for anyone but I was expecting the end to be a bit more \realistic\ not \feel good movie\ ending...), overall|3|Negative
This really is an excellent book with an interesting story and well-conceived details.  I listened to the audio version, which was particularly well acted.  My complaint with the book is that it is blatantly anti-Jewish.  The circus leaders, who are described as Jewish, are mean and spiteful, making the lives of the workers a living hell.  Why did Ms. Gruen need to assign a religion to them? I found this really offensive, and played into negative Jewish stereotypes.  My other complaint with the book is that the two Jacobs don't seem like the same person (I'm assuming they are although I'm not quite finished with the book).  One is loving and mild-mannered, the other cantankerous and bitter.  Can these really be the same person?, overall|3|Negative
Water for Elephants is the break-out runaway hit first novel by Sara Gruen.  It's a classic down on his luck boy meets out of his league girl and they fall madly in love story.  Except the story is set in a cruel and gritty circus world of the Depression, which only makes the story more interesting.Gruen's story is well told and written, and she does a good job portraying the everyday cruely of circus life during the hard times of the Great Depression. She creates several interesting and memorable characters--from the scrappy Camel to the manic August.  And several of the circus scenes allow the reader to paint a vivid mental picture, which is always key to a fascinating novel.I'll admit that I was probably the last person in America to read this book, and as a result, I've been hearing about how fantastic it was for three years.  Unfortunately, the book had a hard time living up to these expectations.  I enjoyed it, but it wasn't the great romance/historical novel I was expecting.  I would still recommend that others read it, particularly to compare to the recent movie, since I thought the book had a much stronger storyline., overall|3|Negative
Good for a beach read but none of these characters are memorable. This book doesnt hold a candle to \Racing in the rain\., overall|3|Negative
I was excited because I suspected that this was a book must have been written for me. I have always been a circus enthusiast and I was particularly interested in the details and the workings of a circus during the depression era.  The amount of research is impressive.  I agree with the other reviewers that the sections concerning the old man in the nursing home were probably the best written.  Unfortunately, the part that I had the least patience with is the love triangle.  That, of course, is the main engine for the plot. I didn't think the writting was as clunky as some claimed. I would have liked to have known more about the elephant. Where I'm from the nursing home takes all those who want to go to the circus or where ever, even if it is 60 miles away. And what's this deal with people writting novels about characters and events that are as far removed from themselves as possible?  It must be a reaction against Hemmingway, Fitzgerald, etc., but those were some pretty good writers. I enjoyed the topic, but I hoped to like this book more., overall|3|Negative
I've never been big on circuses, so I was not expecting to like this book. However, Jacob was a sympathetic character, especially as an elderly man whose family seemed to visit him in his nursing home out of obligation., overall|3|Negative
While I don't completely regret reading this book about a young man who joins the circus as a vet in the 1930's, in hindsight I defintely would have chosen another book. It starts off with a bang, then slows down significantly in the middle, and it ends quite nicely. It's your typical boy meets girl, boy falls in love with girl story. I did enjoy the historical fiction aspect of it and I truly enjoyed the final portion of the book where the author writes about why, how, and what she did to write this book.I'd recommend it to the causal reader, but a more sophisticated reader may want to look elsewhere., overall|3|Negative
SEVERAL PEOPLE HAVE SUGGESTED TO ME THAT I READ THIS BOOK.  I HAVE OBSERVED PEOPLE READING THIS BOOK ON AIRPLANES, IN CARPOOL LINES, SITTING ON A BENCH AT BARK PARK, SO I DECIDED IT WAS A MUST READ JUST TO FEEL LIKE I BELONGED IN A SOCIETY.  THE BOOK IS INTERESTING, PARTICULARLY IF YOU WERE FASCINATED WITH THE CIRCUS AS A YOUNG CHILD.  I FOUND THE ANIMAL BRUTALITY A LITTLE DIFFICULT TO READ, ALTHOUGH IT WAS NOT AS BRUTAL AS I HAD ANTICIPATED, BUT WHAT I DID MOSTLY REMEMBER AT THE END.  IT'S A GOOD READ, NOT A GREAT READ.  THE ONLY FLAW I WOULD MENTION IS THE NARRATOR'S VOICE WAS NOT PLAUSIBLE AS A NINETY YEAR OLD MAN.  THE AUTHOR MIGHT HAVE DONE A LITTLE RESEARCH IN THAT AREA, BUT DON'T LET THAT STOP YOU FROM READING THE BOOK., overall|3|Negative
I wish that I could say that I was one of the readers of  Water For Elephants, the well researched novel by Sara Gruen, who was graciously transported to the circus world of the 1930's, but sadly I can't.I am not one who acclaims the romance of  the beautiful Marlena, the circus horse rider and Jacob, whose personal tragedy causes him to walk away from his final exams at Cornell Vet school.  Instead, I am left thinking that perhaps, I should have read Twilight instead.  The an essential problem of reading a romance in which the reader does not care for the romantic protagonists, is that it takes the heart out of the book.Though there was enough in the side characters, animals and atmosphere to carry the book but alas there I often found Gruen's phrasing annoying and clunky.  I have decided in all fairness to Ms Gruen and her many fans that I will desist from reading any more of her works and we shall all continue on quite happily., overall|3|Negative
Water for Elephants is the story of Jacob Jankowski.  After a tragic accident involving his parents, Jacob feels lost and unsure of his future.  One night he hops a train - only to find that he's hopped a circus train.  Because he is \almost\ a vetrenarian they welcome him aboard (although not that nicely or easily) and he quickly becomes embroiled in a very predictable love triangle.Gruen does a great job with the transition from the ruminations of 93 year-old Jacob in the nursing home to 22 year-old Jacob on the traveling circus.  They're seemless and very well done.  Reading about the circus and life on a traveling circus during the depression era was also interesting.My complaint with the novel lies in the fact that as a reader I felt the author just skimmed the surface with this novel.  The story was predictable and shallow, and while the characters were decently developed, the overall story line just wasn't that great, IMHO.I was disappointed., overall|3|Negative
It took me a good 4 days to get halfway through this book before it finally caught my attention. It was okay, I wasnt drawn in immediately. If it wasnt for the old man perspective I would have completely disliked this book., overall|3|Negative
This book had its moments, I cried and I smiled.  However there was a lot in between those moments that I ended up just glossing over.  I find that the book is normally better than the movie so I'm glad I read the book instead of watching the movie.  I don't think I could have sat for the whole movie., overall|3|Negative
Have to say I'm wondering what all the fuss is about this book? Up to about page 190 I found it to be an enjoyable read and had mentioned it to friends. Alas from page 190 onwards I found it losing its grip...maybe it's too long?Most of the characters are underdeveloped to the point that much of the conversation between Jacob and the various circus folks could essentially take place between him and one other - they all sound the same. I've read peoples comments about the trials and tribulations of the characters living through the depression - it doesn't come anywhere close to a classic dealing with the same period, The Grapes of Wrath.The stampede at the end is a tad too contrived, surely the animals would be tearing themselves, and all around them, limb from limb given that they've attacked their handlers in the past. Same goes with Jacobs disappearance from the old peoples home - again too contrived.There is the makings of a great story here but I don't think Gruen is the one to tell it. The opening scenes have Blackie under the authority of Camel and then 3 months down the road Blackie is ejecting Camel from the train? Sorry it doesn't seem credible. August seems like a nasty piece of work but his paranoia was certainly well founded in the end; we're told that he suffers from paranoid schizophrenia but does anyone help him out with it? Just seems a convenient way for Gruen to add a villain in to the mix...and I have to question would circus folks even know what it was in the first place, and surely his wife would have helped him try and figure it out...\I left my husband\...\why?\...\he was a paranoid schizophrenic\...\ah, OK, cool\...isn't life a little more complicated than that? And his ultimate demise and how it was conducted is a little far fetched.I guess I'm feeling let down - the book starts off well but alas doesn't maintain the quality. Also found the interview with Gruen to impart nothing of much substance and the \Questions for Book Groups\ to be of a nature beyond the level of this book - Grapes of Wrath certainly gives rise to concerns about the depression, compassion etc. but this book doesn't. Alas it didn't deliver and I don't think I'll be reading anything else by Gruen based on this.Have to say that I'm a little disgruntled at the thought of Gruen has a couple of dollars of mine and undeservedly so; if I was Gruen I'd be asking myself whether the ending was worthy of the potential shown earlier in the book. Unfortunately, it's books like this that have me buying books secondhand, and for the most part reading the \classics\; they're classics as they've withstood the test of time - I can't imagine this book doing so. For authors I like I'm more than happy to buy a book new and in the process pay money to the author, but my disappointment with this book is such that I don't think Gruen deserves any reward for it and makes me realise what a financial risk one is making buying new books from untried authors.Why are there so few contemporary authors out there who are deserving of the praise that seems to be lauded upon them so easily these days? For those of you looking for a book that covers the darker aspects of humanity and their situations along with some wonderfully humourous moments then give \Suttree\ a read by Cormac McCarthy - it's not the easiest of reads but rewards effort., overall|3|Negative
Water for Elephants is an interesting text because it is not especially well written, the story is pure soap opera, and yet it is an enjoyable read that at times evokes a long gone era. I think it suffers from overly effusive praise and so many readers are bitterly disappointed once they get through it.First, let's look at the strengths of the novel. I enjoyed the evocations of circus and train life. Gruen clearly spent some time working on these descriptions of circus life and there are little Depression era details that were nice historical jewels for the reader to mine. Also effective was her characterization of old Jacob. His voice was witty and biting and he provided the most pleasure of any character in the text. Chapter nineteen of the novel is the saddest depiction of rest home life I have read in literature. A man is forgotten by his family, and the scene is heartbreaking.Now to examine the reasons why this book is unsatisfying. First off the characters from the 1930s parts of the novel are some of the weakest characterizations I have seen in a book in a long time. They are stock characters at best, and the villains are the mustache twirling men from melodrama. It is hard to care about any of the characters because they are so transparently fake. Even more distracting then the weak characterization is the incredibly insipid (and modern sounding) dialogue Gruen puts in their mouths. She has such nice historical details in the setting of the text, why couldn't she also use it in the dialogue?Many readers have found the ending unsatisfying, and although it is ridiculous, it fits the novel so I won't argue with it. The cloying depiction of animals is also a little beyond the pale, but again, I simply had to come to terms with the novel for what it is. It is popular fiction. It is a melodrama you will get caught up in. And for those purposes it is adequate. Don't go into it expecting more than what it is capable of giving and you will be satisfied., overall|3|Negative
For the most part this was a moving and fascinating story. Well written, the characters were vivid and appealing, even, at times, the villains. However, I found the way the story ended to be somewhat trite and not at all believable.Although the loyalty and brotherhood among circus people was clearly portrayed throughout, the end of the story reduced this excellent portrait of a mysterious and esoteric world into a fairy-tale. For me, the lovely flight ended with a thud, from a delicious learning experience to an insult to my intelligence., overall|3|Negative
I had no anticipation of what to expect when I began reading Water for Elephants.  The most enlightening aspect of the story was the education I received about the hierarchy of employees within the circus.  From an outsider who has always been taught (but never believed it) that people in the circus where of lower class than others, I had no idea there were different ranks of people within the circus.  Life behind the scenes at the circus was crude and inhumane.  From the beginning the book was colorful with characters.  The transitioning between the past and the present with the main character was an interesting transition.I try to approach a book with an open mind and throw other opinions out the window.  I am pleased I have done this because the people that I know who have read this book have ranged from horrible to excellent.  I found this book entertaining and engrossing. It was never a book that I just could not put down, but I enjoyed read it.  Because the era in which the reference of the circus occurred the comparison of food lines and the great depression was evident.  Although the inhumane treatment of the people and animals undoubtedly occurred during this time period, it wasn't easy to read it.  Although the hierarchy of the class of people was evident within the circus, it was not unlike how society actually was during this time period.  The author clearly did research to solidly base the sad realities of the treatment of people and animals during the depression era.The author weaved a story with vivid characters and animal characters in a sympathetic and favorable light.  Sara Gruen's engaging \Water for Elephants\ is an eminently American work, set in the depths of the Depression and featuring a broken-hearted young man whose unplanned existential leap of faith catapults him into a chaotic and unknown way of life. Jacob Jankowski discovers his untapped reservoir of courage, conviction and compassion, and in so doing, he, in every manner of the American definition of the word, emerges as a hero. \Water for Elephants\ is a triumph -- of a writer fully in control of her craft, of a character resolute in his determination to discover life and of a depiction of ideas that truly embody our national character.After all of this being said, I am on the fence as to whether this book lives up to all the buzzes and even deserving of being made a movie.  There is nothing more satisfying than when you finish a book and you feel like you also were part of the adventure.  I do not regret reading this book, I only wish it was more engrossing., overall|3|Negative
I did enjoy this book although I wouldn't say it was great. Maybe best for a easy poolside read. The characters were fun and the story believable. Worth the read., overall|3|Negative
Purchased book based on reviews and I am a firm believer of reading a book before viewing the movie. The author does a great job of transporting you to this era and what it actually like to be apart of a great circus traveling by train. The author gives very detailed and explicit images of the scenery, animals, costumes and characters.However there are not smooth transitions from character to character due to the main character telling the story as an older man and hid younger self. It was hard sometimes to distinguish the difference between characters so much so I had to go back and re-read a page an then be like oh okay this is so and so.***SPOILER ALERT BELOW***I didn't care for the ending of this book either. I didn't think that it was realistic for the main character to leave his nursing home without aide (since in the story he can barely make it from the table to the window). Also he can barely button 3 buttons on his shirt, so how is he going to sell tickets at the booth to the circus? He meets a young man and he just volunteers to take care of him for the rest of his life (and he's 93)? This young man that he meets is no relation to him, it's just really hard foe me to believe that a young man running a traveling circus would take this all on., overall|3|Negative
started off great...didn't care for it as it went on. The animal abuse really bothered me and I really didn't like the way it ended...sorry...., overall|3|Negative
The book is a good book but in no way great.  The descriptions of the time period and the circus was great but the story was predictable to excess.  The characters were contrived and stereotypical.  I did enjoy parts of the story but it is not a great novel, it is merely an entertaining read., overall|3|Negative
I listened to the audiobook version of this book (great production!) but was one of those who was somewhat disappointed. I had read the glowing reviews and thought I'd give it a try. I listened to it all and thought the characters were wonderful but the plot was so slow. I felt like there were so many opportunities that the author had with the themes, time period, etc.that were not used. I give it three stars but there are so many other good books out there worth the 11 hours of time., overall|3|Negative
Not that I wanted to know anything about the circus - ever - let alone the circus during the 30s, but there you have it. I read this for a book club; I'd never have chosen it for myself and was the only person to not enjoy the book. While I skimmed much of the circus part, I found myself enjoying the here-and-now part with Jacob in the nursing home.He was the type of character I enjoy, with his ornery comments and the loss he endured. Not necessarily with the death of his beloved wife, but with the forgetfulness of his surviving family, his children and grandchildren. It was almost as if he was an afterthought once he was in the Home - out of sight out of mind. That was heartbreaking, and I could see why he chose the end he did - to run away and spend the last bit of his life doing something he could, where people needed him and wouldn't forget him.The young Jacob's life - eh. He was weak, not very bright and I question how he managed to get into an Ivy League school. But then they don't test you on common sense. There was no real consequence for his actions in the circus, and he managed (drunk death defying feats on a moving train notwithstanding) to consistently escape his actions.I admit to not guessing the entire ending, though it was obvious who his wife was since her introduction. The writing was full of flowery clich&eacute;s, and there were several places I wish Ms. Gruen would've gone over again to plug up some holes and take out excessive details, but overall it did work. I just wasn't interested in it., overall|3|Negative
I feel a little weird writing a critical review about this book. It was strongly recommended to me by several people who said it was \a great story\ so I was expecting something that would truly captivate me and pull me in. For me, it simply fell short.I think that a tremendous amount of time and effort went into the research involved for this book and that should not go unnoticed. If you're looking for a book that clearly depicts the Great Depression and/or circus life during that time period - by all means you should pick up the book. I do not know a tremendous amount about that time period to tell you if it was fully accurate, but I feel that it did give me a pretty good picture of what circus life would be like in that era. The photographs installed at the beginning of each chapter also did a great job connecting the story with the reality of traveling circuses of the time. The language probably could have corresponded a bit more, but in terms of the spirit and energy of the book versus the time period in which it takes place, I think it was pretty spot on.However, I really had trouble connecting with the characters. They simply did not seem like well-rounded, real people to me. I understand that the characters should be eccentric considering they are individuals traveling with a circus, but not to the point where they should seem artificial. Their emotional reactions to various tumultuous situations seemed unrealistic - based on having experienced similar situations in my life. The psychological repercussions would have been huge for a lot of the major conflicts that occur in the book - especially during the time of the Great Depression - but I did not feel the degree of inner struggle within the characters was well represented throughout the story. The characters would get sad or angry, but they seemed to sedate their feelings pretty darn quick.The depiction of the main character in his old age, however, seemed more realistic to me. I thought the scenes in the nursing home were very well done and true to life. The characters in these parts also seemed more believable to me. However, I was pretty disappointed in the ending. It seemed contrived. I will not get into it too deeply, however, so as not to spoil the story.I genuinely feel that Sara Gruen is a great author and did a good job with the book, I just feel that the character development was lacking. In terms of painting a picture of the environment though, she did a fantastic job and it's a book worth reading, if only for the descriptive element of it. Plus, tons of people simply LOVE the book - it just wasn't for me in the end., overall|3|Negative
I decided to read this book because I was looking for something different and I did find that.  I thought it was well written and it was a very quick read but I have to say that for me it was not a four or five star read.  The characters were interesting, and Rosie was great!!  A fun read but not all it was built up to be for me., overall|3|Negative
Yes, this story reads like a script and I was interested in the characters.....however I thought the terrible things that happen was just too much.  Reading about the terrible things that happen to animals, the perverted things that carnies do, it was just too much - I wanted to erase that stuff from my brain the moment I read it.  That is just not entertaining to me at all.  I really did enjoy how the book tied \what happened\ from the beginning to the end, very nicely.  That was very interesting to me and I'm glad I finished it.  I could do without all the other crap though., overall|3|Negative
There were times I had to stop reading this book because it was so graphic.  I can't stand animal abuse of any kind, and I literally wanted to cry as the author described the treatment of the circus animals.  Some reviewers here have also been blasted for their criticism of the soft porn in this book, but it IS graphic and can be rather shocking.  I didn't expect this in the book at all and so as much as I wanted to like this book, I have my reservations about it.  Just be aware that there are some moments in Water for Elephants that are not for the squeamish or sensitive., overall|3|Negative
I want to preface this review by stating that I loved the story.  The characters are wonderful, the depiction of an old time Circus and the life of those who were \on the show\ is impressive.The book has two major flaws, in my opinion.  First, the beginning of the book is a word for word copy of the most tense and climactic scene, and the entire novel is spent just knowing you're headed to that scene, so all the power of that moment is spoiled.  A linear telling of the tale, start to finish, would have been much better.I'm not sure what was gained (if anything) by the dual voices of young and old narrator, but I suspect it was done for \literary effect\.  This is a very powerful tale of romance, the bonds between men and animals, passion, love - every time it shifts back to the present - it's like a deflating balloon.I wish the story had been told on it's own without the unnecessary shifting of voice and had actually had a climax remaining when the climax arrived...I recommend the book, but lament some of the choices the author made in presenting it., overall|3|Negative
There were many positives about the story - 1)  Nice feel of what it was like to be in the circus during the depression  2) Great analysis of what it is like to be old in a rest home.  3)  Excellent voice characters for the audio.  4) Beginning of good bi-polar character.Negative - 1) Feel of the story moved from period piece about the circus to feel of Nazi camp where all leaders are evil  2) Instead of developing bi-polar character he was just written off as evil.  3) One big surprise in the book concerning the murder but not that monumental.  4) Three needless scenes that bordered on pornographic., overall|3|Negative
After reading in book reviews (in the newspaper) that this was a good book, I bought the audio version, unabridged.It started slow, the character 93 years old.  I wondered if it would pick-up and it did--when the same character went back to being in college.  It took longer to set the stage than I expected, but the book kept me listening all the way to the end.  And even though I liked the younger character better--it was much more interesting than listening to the older character, it ended with the older gengleman.  It was a surprising unexpected ending, that made it all the more worthwhile for waiting for it.The setting was a seedy travelling circus set in the Depression era in the US.  Some parts were sad, the disposable people to the circus owners, and the treatment at times of the animals.  The reader brought it all together--the main character, and I truly enjoyed this book--not one I would normally be intersted in or buy.I might have been able to skim by the slow parts if the book were in paper form, not audio, or if the chapters were shorter in the audio book.  That was my only complaint in this book.  SOme things were drawn out too much.It was a sad happy story, but unlike Oprah's books, good prevailed overall and the majority of the time--in the story and in the ending.  It was a hard time for America and for the small time travelling circus, and those who lived that life.  It's a good read.  I might have enjoyed it more in hardback, then the 93-year old voice and pace would not have grated on me so much, or dragged so much, else I would give it a 4-star, but not 5--it has some slow parts that drag it out too much., overall|3|Negative
As much as I wanted to really like this book, I felt that it failed on several levels.  I will say that the circus atmosphere was conveyed with incredible, and apparently accurate, detail and I was impressed by that. I could see and even smell everything, and the book movingly conveyed how desperate times led to desperate people clinging to even the most degrading employment with a third rate circus.  However, the characters seemed to be straight out of a romance novel, with the exception of old(even he's not sure how old he is)Jacob, who was funny, disarming, feisty and touching -- whereas the young Jacob was pretty vanilla, too obviously a \nice guy\ with little personality.  In contrast, Old Jacob's voice was so clear and true and I really cared about him;he was funny and sad, his memories bittersweet, his longings compelling.  I also liked (but who didn't?)Rosie the elephant, who had twice the personality of anyone else in the fleabag circus, with the exception perhaps of Walter, the dwarf.  The plot depended on coincidences that I had problems believing, and I found myself caring more about the animals (which I admit isn't unusual for me!) than I did about any of the people.  However, I'd heartily recommend this book to anyone who enjoys sentimental stories, who loves happy, pat endings, who doesn't necessarily want a book to convey great ideas, but who is touched more by the romance rather than the writing.  Those of you will, as have many others, it appears, love this book.  There is certainly nothing wrong with that, it's just that those kinds of books are simply not what I prefer to read.  This book might actually make a good movie, and I'd be surprised if Hollywood hasn't snatched it up already., overall|3|Negative
Loved this book! A great story and insight into the time period and life during those times. Highly recommend this book, overall|3|Negative
I spent most of this book disliking it. I hated the constant depiction of cruelty to animals and people; I hated the griminess inherent in the depiction of circus life; and I hated the naivete of main character Jacob Jankowski, the poor veterinary student forced by a cruel twist of fate to seek shelter and employment with the Benzini Brothers traveling circus.It took me forever to make it through the first 100 pages, and the only reason I stuck with it was because I was just too lazy to go pick out another book to read. This is the one that was on my bed so this is the one I picked up to read every night before going to sleep.Finally I reached the 100th page and was ready to turn to something else, but to my surprise, I realized that I wanted to know what was going to happen. I had become interested in the character of Rosie the elephant, who was rescued from another show, and I wanted to make sure things came out all right for her in the end. I actually read the entire last third of the book in one setting. I still wasn't enjoying it, mind you, but I was really worried about Rosie!I am not going to relate the plot because I don't want to give any spoilers, but let me just say that the ending of the book was one of the sweetest, most satisfying book endings I have ever read in my life. I still don't like the book, but I love the ending!, overall|3|Negative
This book is a page turner, but it certainly did not live up to the hype. It is reminiscent of older works like The Great Gatsby and Fifth Business, but doesn't try to be deep. Yes, the point of view of the old man was done well, but frankly quite boring. The love story felt flat (what exactly did they see in each other? neither had any personality), overall|3|Negative
I read this book because my sister-in-law (who never reads) could not put it down until she finished. So I gave it a go and, after a slow start, was interested enough to finish. The author does everything she can to exploit the reader's concern for cats, dogs, monkeys and, of course, the titular elephant. The narrator  is a vet who sticks with the circus, at first, in order to protect the animals, but he does little to interfere with their mistreatment... or the mistreatment of his fellow humans. In that sense, the book rings false. The book exploits the reader's feeling for animals and animal-human relationships for some cheap emotional effect. And it worked on me to some extent because I  cared about (and shed shed tears for) the animals much more than the humans. But I fail to see larger point., overall|3|Negative
A sad story, beautifully told. Gruen cuts effortlessly between a faultless evocation of a seedy circus during the Depression - a grotesquerie if ever there was one -  and the modern-day life of an nonagenarian trapped in a failing body and a souless nursing home. Gruen's vivid prose and dead-on dialog transport the reader to a place and time, both physical and emotional, that does not fail to fascinate.  What in less talented hands might easily be a depressing tale of old age is animated by the spunk and wit of her main character.  My only complaint about the story is its ending, which I frankly found implausible.  But that's a minor complaint about an otherwise absorbing book., overall|3|Negative
It was okay. I liked the relationship between Marlena and Jacob, but it didn't captivate me as much as I thought it would., overall|3|Negative
I thought this topic would be very interesting, as you get to see the inner workings of a Circus. That's something I'd never read about and DID find interesting, and it's probably what kept me reading all the way to the end.The characters however were not that well developed, especially Marlena. Most of the time she comes off as an airheaded child, a woman easily fooled and manipulated. It's also sort of difficult to really imagine Jacob and Marlena being so completely in love, as they don't really have anything in common other than their love of animals. Also not a big fan of the book flashing back and forth between 22 year old Jacob and 91 year old Jacob. Most of the \old Jacob\ chapters are tedious to read and the payoff at the end with him is pretty small--especially as you aren't really sure how he got to be so grumpy and bitter.The main thing I disliked about this book is that it gives away the ending in the first chapter. You know the bad guy is going to die from page 1. So the rest of the book has you feeling pretty indifferent because you already know what the outcome will be. You already know the hero prevails and the tension or the thrill of finding out what will happen is gone., overall|3|Negative
The book was interesting but I think mostly because the subject matter was something different.  The characters in my opinion could have been fleshed out a lot more.  It seemed to me to be a book written primarily so a movie could be made of it.  It was more of an outline for a larger novel.  Aside from that, again, it was interesting I just thought there should be more to it., overall|3|Negative
Took this and \The Call Girl Actress, Confessions of a Lesbian Escort\ by Erica Black to the beach this summer. I had to put this one back in my beach bag. I was glad I had Erica's book or I'd have been bored. I don't think this will go down as Gruen's best effort. Very easy to guess what was coming from the plot., overall|3|Negative
You've heard the story about the blind man feeling an elephant and trying to describe what it is? In many ways, I felt the same way reading Sara Gruen's fast-paced and engaging story. It is an oddity. It is wondrous. And it also has some plodding, filthy elements.\Water for Elephants\ starts with a grippping prologue, during which we see the murder of a circus employee in the 1930s. The story then switches back and forth between young and old Jacob, a man who gets pulled into the circus life, discovers love, adventure, and trouble, and then reflects back on that as an old man. Gruen does a fine job creating this empathetic character, though the old man's story becomes less important and almost campy by the end. The young man's story delves deeply into circus life, with lots of interesting details and conflict, although the characters are all fairly black and white, with the villains being obvious and predictable. For some reason, Gruen also seems compelled to give us lurid details of the circus striptease and Jacob's own loss of virginity at the hands of the \cooch tent\ prostitutes. Why these elements are described in such detail only detracts from the already shallow love story to come. It would be nice to see some intellectual dialogue between our male and female leads, rather than coy glances, \shapely calves,\ and the surface attraction of teenage relationships.Soon, Jacob's background in veterinary studies allows him to find a place onboard the circus train, during which he falls in love with Marlena, a woman trapped in an abusive relationship. When the circus procures a new elephant for its act, it provides a link between Jacob and Marlena, as well as with Rosie the elephant. The problem is the jealous and psychotic August, Marlena's husband. We know he must be removed from the picture for this to work. Deeply ethical and moral issues come into play, but Gruen chooses the easy route and solves the problem in a somewhat satisfactory but highly implausible way. This is only underlined by the equally implausible solution of old-man Jacob's frustrations. Sure, it's all warm and gushy, but the deep research and texture of the circus and some of its elements give way to romanticized solutions that turn a historic novel into one of borderline fantasy.With all the fanfare over this novel and tie-in movie, I suspect I'll be accused of being the blind man here in my description of the \elephant.\ Many elements were strong and well done, but much like Sebold's \The Lovely Bones,\ all of the wonderful storybuilding gives way to a conclusion that feels a bit forced and too easy., overall|3|Negative
I have had this book for some time now and still have yet to finish it. Everyone raved about how good it was but I found it hard to get into - however, keep in mind I'm not an avid reader so it has to be pretty interesting to keep me involved., overall|3|Negative
Sarah Gruen clearly establishes and proves her research of traveling circuses in the 1920s and 30s in this novel. Written from the point of view of the protagonist, Jacob Jankowski, we find out how he is thrust into the world of circuses after he experiences a life-changing tragedy in his family, the death of his parents in an accident. The book goes back and forth from the present, with Jacob being in an assisted-living home, to the past, where Jacob boards a train and then, after being almost booted off, begins his world of traveling circuses aboard the Benzini Bros. With nowhere to go, and nothing to do, he begins the circus life, meets several of the key characters, such as Walter, Camel, Marlena, August and \Uncle Al.\ While Gruen's ability as a storyteller is there, I felt like the book was a letdown because of the direction it took with the main character.One substantial element to Jacob's personality is his connection and compassion for animals, but I felt like there were times when he isn't the strong leading character he could be, and that this compassion for animals is inconsistent. For instance, there is a point after becoming the Benzini Bros. personal veterinarian, he indicates that his protection for animals is unbending saying \...and what my father would do--what my father would want me to do--is look after them, and I am filled with that absolute and unwavering conviction.\ Yet, there is at least one instance when Jacob has a chance to stop the villain August from abusing Rosie, the elephant, but fails to take any action, despite how ruthless he knows August to be. Odd, considering that he makes some rash decisions, but none that are of much consequence.It also seemed odd to not focus more on the circus itself, as it pertained to Jacob and many of the other characters. Why not focus more on the spectacle of the circus, the performers, the competition between the rival circuses, and the pageantry of the event?  The potential to do this seemed to be there, especially the way the 93 year old Jacob reflects on the sweet memories of being in the circus, telling many workers in the hospital about those wonderful days with teary-eyed conviction.  Instead Gruen uses much of the book's energy on the \forced\ relationship and wooden love affair between Jacob and leading circus performer Marlena, August's wife. I mean, if you are going to write about the circus, and do the research on it, why not concentrate more attention on events that involve the history of the circus. There was a pronounced shift to the love affair between Jacob and Marlena, especially in the novel's second half, and much of the dialogue between the two seemed hokey and silly. It made the book come across as a romance disguised as a circus story.Still, it was an enjoyable and relatively quick read. Gruen's ability to detail scenery and hook the reader into a story is present from the beginning to end and her writing flows smoothly. This is the kind of book that has many redeeming qualities, and makes for a good topic of discussion.I just wish the book wouldn't have \sold out\ on a silly love affair; the potential for much more was there.3 1/2 stars, overall|3|Negative
Sara Gruen's novel, Water for Elephants, published in 2007 by Algonquin Books is a good story about a circus traveling in the U.S. during the Great Depression. The narrative carries the novel in spite of the rather shallow character development. Gruen's description of the historical period is sketchy with a few interesting threads. I bought the book because I was limited in free time and could only read in brief intermittent time periods. The book required minimal attention and was entertaining. I wonder about the editing of the book, allowing contemporary jargon to slip into the 1930's dialogue (e.g., \Whatever\). Water for Elephants is a light, beach, plane, motel novel that I recommend for the casual reader., overall|3|Negative
The love triangle at the heart of the narrative comes right out of Sophie's Choice.  A beautiful yet disconnected young woman and her gregarious alpha male husband befriend and uplift a lonely young intellectual.  The climax confrontation and subsequent revelation of the true nature of the husband's problems are blatant plagiarisms.  But the thing that tipped me off early on wasn't the love triangle.  It was instead when a character named Kinko is mistakenly referred to as \stinko\.  You may recall Meryl Streep doing the same thing when referring to Stingo.  Unfortuantely for fans of this book, the alpha male character, August, has none of the charms of Kevin Kline.Yet for all its faults I did enjoy the book.  It was very hard to put down, but that may be because the circus is a favorite subject of mine., overall|3|Negative
I don't think the actual plot of this story interested me as much as the incredible setting and description of circus life in the early 1900's. I LOVE the historic photographs at the end of each chapter because it allowed me to see for myself the life-style that the story was trying to re-create. I wasn't all that attached to any of the human characters, but I loved the animals and actually think my favourite character was the Circus itself. I was able to view the Circus as a living, breathing character of it's own, and that is honestly where most of my intrigue for the story came from. I was not prepared for the amount of sexuality and language in the story! It was completely distracting from the story and I was disappointed how often it would randomly be thrown into the writing. I felt it was almost always unnecessary...it did more to detract from the novel than it ever could have added. I suppose it was a wake-up call for me about the difference between young adult fiction and adult fiction. Had it not been for those two things I would have definitely rated the book a 4 or 5., overall|3|Negative
i wasnt expecting this to be so much about the elephant. i wish it wouldve been more about the main characters. but all in all a good book, overall|3|Negative
I don't consider myself a lit-snob by any means. I love fun, breezy reads like many readers out there. I have read `em high and... low. There are times when I just want an escapist read. But given the perimeters--those reads usually deliver the goods. Though the stories may be a tad simple.Here we have a book that's been out a while. Supposedly one with some substance. So we have a guy who winds up joining the circus after ditching an Ivy league education in the Depression years.  I can go with it. No problem there. But then we have the host of characters in the circus itself. Some of this is good reading--but then--we have problems of cliched, predicatable writing wedged between sections of rather better-than-average writing. And all too many flat characters with little substance.Much of this appears in this story. That's the problem. Besides, Jacob is just not all that engaging to me or a convincing character. And the story comes off predictable and rather weak. So it's a passable beach read.Given the kind of over-the-top and unsubstantiated praise this novel has received, surely, I can't be the only one who feels this way and I can't help but notice than whenever there is a unfavorable review of this book  there will be an outpouring of five star reviews--one after another--that are all two or three sentences of praise and little real commentary.Coincidence?Again, not an altogether bad read, but this is no KITE RUNNER or actually, SNOW FLOWER AND THE SECRET FAN, two far better reads than this., overall|3|Negative
This is an engaging, fast paced story of a veterinarian in a circus during Prohibition.  The plot tension is well-handled and intense.  There is plenty of likeable characters, as well as villains.  And, of course, animals.  It is well-researched, and the setting (circus train stopping in many towns) is realistic, as are the many details of circus life.  I'd thought of circus culture as highly cohesive, but this novel showed serious social stratification.  The characterization is about that of the best genre fiction, though the book isn't genre.  The ending is a bit of a stretch, but a positive one.  The book was hard to put down.  An excellent read., overall|3|Negative
I am your casual reader. I read no more than ten books a year. This was the second book I read this year and so far, it's the best book I've read this year but it isn't as good as the reviews say it is. I enjoyed the bits about the old man's life more than I did than when he talked about his youth. Left lurching in an oldage home, this man tries to fend for himself when he's made to sit with a fellow gentleman he doesn't quite like. The only thing the old man knows is that he's old and even goes as far as wishing that the reader never gets to this age. The introduction of the novel is very good and it's easy to read although at times when he's reminiscing, you may get confused. The names of animals and humans can be a tad confusing. This book is a good bet for some while I can think of some people not liking this.Fellow casual readers, you're not missing much, try Frank McCourt's Angela's Ashes. However, for those with piqued interests, you must be wondering why your friends never spoke about this book, I wondered so too, only until I finished reading the book. I think people are liking it more because of how compact it is in encompassing two lives. The author's youthful days are nothing like mine.P.S - I, in not one way, undermine the collective intelligence of a casual reader for I am one.Applause,please., overall|3|Negative
Definitely worth reading. It offers a great look at life in an on-the-road circus, but it also provides a good look at what goes on in the mind of a 90-something who has seen and lived a lot, but who believes he has been put out to pasture.I would have given the book probably five stars if it hadn't contained so much profanity and scatological language.  The old man's tale would have done a very good job of living on its own without that., overall|3|Negative
I have been disappointed by popular fiction, especially when there is a movie, but not this time. Although I would not recommend it for young readers,the story is believable and enthralling. The writing if full of quotable prose,and I loved the accuracy of the descriptions of the elder Jacob., overall|3|Negative
I can't say it was bad but it sure wasn't good. I have had the book for many years and just got around to reading it. Major disappointment considering the hype and accolades. It had the potential to be much better, but it was trite and lagged all the way through, for the most part. I'm mystified by the massive attention. It, in my opinion, is mediocre, at best. 3 stars is the max I can give it. Great literature it's not. Sophomoric comes to mind., overall|3|Negative
A SO-SO BOOK THAT WAS NOT AS GOOD AS I EXPECTED W/ ALL THE GLOWING REVIEWS.  BUT IT WAS AN INTERESTING READ ON CIRCUS LIFE., overall|3|Negative
I really liked how the characters went back and forth from elderly to his youth. I found myself often feeling like I was there watching it all play out., overall|3|Negative
It's okay but have the Kindle edition and there are LOTS of spelling mistakes through out the book. Makes it hard to read, overall|3|Negative
When a book is a best seller and has gotten the reviews this book had I expected something better.  In the end, I felt like the book was average.  I am 26, and am generally not interested in reading books about depression era circuses and love triangles but I thought since this book got great reviews I would give it a shot.  After all, the best book I read last year was the Devil in the White City and I figured if someone could make the 1893 world's fair interesting perhaps 1930s circuses would be interesting as well.  Even with an open mind I couldn't get into the book.  40 or so pages about a 90 year old man - the remaining 300 he recalls his 3.5 months of his life in a circus when he was 22. first 100 pages were decent but then nothing real interesting after that.  Bottom line, if you don't like circuses or reading books about love triangles - don't make the same misstake that I did and buy this book because it is a best seller with great reviews.  If thats what you enjoy, then yeah, you'll probably like it., overall|3|Negative
When Jacob Jankowski's life is turned upside down, he inadvertently leaps onto a circus train and begins a seven year adventure as veterinarian to the circus animals. This is the predictable story of a boy who falls in love with the unattainable woman, compassion, cruelty, and the consequences meted out by an elephant.I enjoyed this book, but did find it rather predictable, and the ending was both bizarre and a major let down, overall|3|Negative
When this book is telling the story of the circus, it is fascinating, describing a world that most readers know nothing about. But, possibly in an attempt to make it more \commercial\, the author has chosen to focus on the love story, which is predictable. In those scenes, fascination turns to boredom.Use all that research (described in detail at the end of the book), Ms Gruen, to tell us more stories of the roustabouts, performers, animals and freaks of the circus - and forget the \plot\ and the soap!, overall|3|Negative
I think that most people seem to either love this novel or hate it, but I have a hard time stirring myself to care much either way.  It is by no means a standout book, but neither is it so horrible that I couldn't force myself through it.The best writing in the book, I think, are the sequences with Jacob as an old man.  They ring true, and have a poignancy regarding the lives and treatment of the elderly that stirs some guilty discomfort.  Leaving aside the over-the-top, sappy, happy Hollywood ending, these sequences are satisfying and believable.The larger narrative, that of Jacob in his twenties, also has an air of authenticity, at least in terms of feeling (to an outsider) like a dingy, dangerous, depression-era circus.  It is successful at creating a strong sense of the world.  But I never found myself getting wrapped up in the stories of any of the individual characters.  In other words, I just didn't get pulled in.Some people probably take offense at the blatant sexuality of a handful of scenes, and at the mistreatment of animals in several more.  I am not personally bothered by these, as they are pertinent to the story, but neither do they stir me to care much about the outcome of the story.  In the end, it was an easy read with a vivid world, but lacking (for me) much character-driven interest.  So I'm on the fence about whether I like it or not.  But who says I have to pick a side?, overall|3|Negative
I was really eager to read this book after seeing all the great reviews for it.  However,  I started reading it and could not get into it.  The whole first half dragged for me, with not too much going on in the story. The writing was difficult to read at times, and I agree with some of the reviewers here, it often read as a screenplay which made it that much harder to get into.  But about halfway through the book, the plot starts moving and I actually end up finishing the book and I'm glad I did.  I'm still not sure why the book itself is getting rave reviews, but I am looking forward to seeing how the movie version of the book will turn out., overall|3|Negative
Maybe it was me, but it was just ok for me.  There was not a lot of action.  it was a sweet love story that took place in the setting of a circus.i like the ending, overall|3|Negative
I finally got around to reading Water for Elephants, it's been on my Kindle forever. I was interested in seeing the movie, but didn't want to until I read the book.It was good, especially the end. At times I wanted to finish just to move on to my next book, but at the end of I was hooked on seeing what would happen next. For some reason, I didn't get what all the craze was about though. Probably because I read a lot of really excellent books this year, including another circus book that blew this one away., overall|3|Negative
When I read a book, I want to immerse myself in it.  I don't want jarring inconsistencies to remind me that it's fiction, and not particularly well written fiction at that.  The speech of Jacob, who supposedly is in the setting of 70 years ago, is disturbingly nonauthentic.  People at that time didn't use the same phrases we use now and putting them in, when you're picturing them in the dress and background of that time period is annoying and unnecessary.  This author needed a better editor.  It's not a 'best' book and the fact that the author is begging for votes makes you wonder about her integrity., overall|3|Negative
If you saw the movie, the book is the same. It was definitely interesting enough to keep you reading. In the end, though, I felt... a little unmoved. I expected a lot more since the ratings were so high. Maybe it just wasn't the kind of book for me. It was entertaining but not too exciting., overall|3|Negative
While this was a quick read it also lacked something for me. I would recommend reading it and judging for yourself., overall|3|Negative
I was surprised to find that Water for Elephants did not live up to all the hype. In the beginning of the book I was hooked. Jacob Jankowski starts off the story as a man in his nineties reminiscing about his days with The Benzini Brothers traveling circus. Jacob experiences a family tragedy and runs away ending up as a veterinarian with the traveling circus. The animals are mistreated, the workers are mistreated, and the \ring leader\ Uncle Al, is an egotistical, greedy SOB that you will love to hate. The things that Jacob witnesses are truly appalling.The research that Gruen did in preparation for this story was definitely the most interesting aspect of the book. However, then comes the middle of the book. I got very bored, and found it hard to finish chapter after chapter. Now having finished the book, I understand that Gruen was just setting up the end of the story. The middle was a  necessary \evil\.Without giving anything away, the ending was interesting. Predictable, but interesting. I enjoyed the book because I love the era (early 1930's) and the characters in the book. Read this book but disregard the five star reviews and hype surrounding the book., overall|3|Negative
The book has some good charactors, interesting story line, but some of the charactors seemed a little flat to me.  For example, the roommate in the stock car, I some how felt more connected to him than Jacob. Overall a fun and light read, but just lacking a little depth to the main charactors. I will absolutly read other Sara Gruen, I think she has some good talent as a writer. Just my opinion., overall|3|Negative
Unusual subject and written in first person narrative of a man early and aged.  Amazing feat given that the author is herself a woman.  Story itself is a bit thin and somewhat sinister. Rather strange at times. Overall, I would rate it as instructive about the history of circus  but with some reservation on the storyline., overall|3|Negative
This story alternates between present-day and flashbacks through the mind of our now 93-year-old main character.  The historical aspects of this book are incredibly well-researched and do a great deal to advance the plot of the story.  Unfortunately, the present-day scenes are rather dull.  I found myself skimming over those sections because I was eager to return to reading about Jacob's life working on the circus in the 1930s.The love story in this book - a tale of forbidden love between Jacob and Marlena, the married star of the big top show - is sweet, but ultimately predictable.  With the exception of one sharp twist, I felt that the love story ending of this novel is fairly cookie cutter.  That being said, I can't deny the fact that I was thoroughly entertained by every page., overall|3|Negative
Gives very clear descriptions of life in the circus, and it isn't always lovely as some folks would imagine.  Enjoyed reading this book, but it isn't for everyone..., overall|3|Negative
I gave this 3 stars only because I did get engrossed with the novel at some point and felt propelled toward the end of the story.  However, everything that others have said about the believability of some of the situations holds true (as in Jacob taking the knife away from Walter when he would need it most).  My main problem with the story was the constant going back and forth from the 90 something character to the young Jacob.  The author didn't make these transitions meaningful in any way.  There was no reason why at some point it switched back in time and then for no reason whatsoever it switched to real time.  And, although I understand people can become forgetful and cranky in their old age, there was no way that the old Jacob was similar to the personality of the young Jacob.  People may get older, but their basic personalities stay the same, and these two Jacobs were totally dissimilar.  And, the author spent too much time in letting us know the horrid aspects of old folks in an old folks home and left us with none of the joys of companionship and the other qualities that people can enjoy in assisted living.  It got to the point where I skipped through the \old\ parts, especially because they didn't advance the story line., overall|3|Negative
The plot is standard \the notebook\ territory and so are the characters. This is a romance novel that leaves you hanging when it starts to get good. Its exciting until the 340 page mark, where at some point, you realize there is no extra layer of intelligence guiding the plot, dialogue, or character developement that could turn it into a classic. Later the plot goes completely off the rails and out of the hands of the main character, as people are murdered and \Jacob\ himself almost becomes a murderer. This book is mostly dark stuff involving death, sex, and money. At times its cheesy and conservative, unrealistic. Its quite an exciting book and a fast read, but there is a lot more that could have been done. The author is quite talented, and I hope her next book is a classic, but this time she written a somewhat formulaic, generally nasty story here that ends in a wreck. The author cleans up Jacob's dilemnas for him by making the plot complete chaos at the end. A little too lazy for me. The book is standard romance with some problems, unfortunately., overall|3|Negative
I greatly enjoyed reading this.  It is not going to start any deep conversations, but it was very well researched and keeps the reader engaged.  Some events were rather predictable though.  In a sense, this book has two endings.  The first becomes clear a little bit before the reader reaches it.  The second, and \final\ ending, is a nice surprise..., overall|3|Negative
This is definitely a slow starter, and the pace picks up only slightly about 2/3 through. A decent story line but not something I'd read again., overall|3|Negative
After hearing so much hype about this book I quickly read it before the movie came out. I wasn't disappointed but I wasn't the super excited about it either. I liked the perspective from which the story was told - a feisty 90-something old man reflecting in flashbacks on his adventures in a travelling circus 70 years earlier, while lamenting the indignities of his current nursing-home existence.  Jacob Jankowski, just days from the final exams at Cornell University becoming a vet, had his world forever altered when his parents are killed in an auto accident. Alone, frightened and penniless, the 23 yr. old hops a train, never intending to &#8220;run away with the circus&#8221;. Harsh conditions at the circus and an insane animal trainer are some of the things Jacob has to contend with living his life with the circus., overall|3|Negative
Story didn't blow me away, althought I finished it with no problems.  I would recommend this book as a light summer read.  Nothing more profound about the story., overall|3|Negative
I found this book interesting because of the research Ms. Gruen obviously did on train circuses and depression-era life.  I also thought her passages detailing the life of Jake as an old man were the best written things in the book.  Since Ms. Gruen is a woman who appears (from her author's photo) to be barely middle-aged, I have to assume that some research went into finding out about the lives of elderly men as well, because she writes these passages with a clear and utterly believable voice that truly resonates.Unfortunately nothing else in the book resonates nearly as much, and there's a lot lacking here.  The young version of Jake never takes off as a character, nor does his entirely manufactured love story with a circus bareback rider.  We know from the moment he sees Marlena that she'll obviously be his love interest, but their relationship never actually develops before they're suddenly declaring love for one another and hitting the sack.Ms. Gruen also fails in her execution of believable villains.  Her two main villains are August, a brutal horse trainer who abuses or neglects all of the animals, and \Uncle Al\, the cruel circus boss, but their villainy never really jumps off the page.  For some reason, she chose to make her main antagonist (August) Jewish.  I still don't understand the reasoning behind that, nor do I understand her choice to call him a paranoid schizophrenic as well.  Oh and for good measure, he's also a wife beater.  He's simply too many things rolled into one.  Perhaps if she'd concentrated on one aspect of his brutality, she could have made him more believable.  And unfortunately, since his religion really has nothing else to do with him as a character, it's hard not to simply label Ms. Gruen as anti-semitic.  Perhaps if she'd actually used the \show, don't tell\ philosophy and let us SEE what Uncle Al was doing instead of just hearing about everything second hand from other characters, he wouldn't have seemed so two-dimensional.  As it is, I never bought these guys as the towering pillars of pure evil they were obviously supposed to be.I also never bought Jake, at least not as a young man.  One minute he's making a vow to himself that he'll stay with the animals so they won't be hurt, because that's what his dead father would want him to do.  Yet, he stands by not once but TWICE and allows August to savagely beat an elephant with a hook.  It's hard to respect a character like that.  Jake rarely takes any real action; he mostly just stands by while things happen TO him or happen *around* him.I also felt the book could have benefited from a diagram.  In books that take place on ships, there's usually a sketch in the front of the book with all the parts labeled for readers to refer back to so they can understand the action.  I had a lot of trouble visualizing the train where  a good 40% of the crucial action takes place in this book, and that was a major barrier to getting into the story.  Had there been a sketch of it up front with all the sections labeled, those sections of the story would have been much easier to understand.Overall, I am giving this book three stars because of the research, the informative author's note at the end, and the sections with Jake as an old man.  I also really got a kick out of the ending.  But on the whole, I would recommend this as a library book or a used book store book -- definitely NOT one you pay full price for., overall|3|Negative
I am not quite sure how to rate this book.  It was a book club pick or I probably would not have read it.  I picked it up and put it down countless times before I could actually finish it.  I just could not get past the animal cruelty scenes.  Plus I am probably one of a minority of people that do not believe animals are here for our entertainment.  The fact that they were and still are, I am sure, in many third rate circuses/traveling zoos mistreated makes it all the more heartbreaking for me.  I had to give the book stars for the scenes involving Jacob in his old age and also for making you care about the characters.  I cried over Walter's fate.  The author also took pity on me and at least made me think some of the animals received a better fate and future.  I keeping thinking about Rex though..........., overall|3|Negative
Thank god for a happy ending - the entire book depressed me - the human and animal cruelty, the redlightings, the drinking of Sterno (!?), the depiction of the folks in the \Assisted Living\ facility (sounded more like a nursing home than ALs I know).  I read it in a day and a half just to get through it for book club, but I wouldn't have finished it otherwise....  and I finish virtually every book I start., overall|3|Negative
I have read this book and listen to it and I preferred the audio book, which surprised me. I felt you could follow the story much better by hearing the 2 different voices instead of reading text., overall|3|Negative
This book was an OK read--The circus setting & the Depression-Era settingwas a refreshing change from books set in modern times/places.Characters were portrayed as characters that everyone meets while trying to succeedat a first job., overall|3|Negative
We tried to listen to it in the car.  BUT our car was too noisey.  So we had to listen to it at home.  The voice could be clearer., overall|3|Negative
I had quite high expectations based on other reviews provided. Actually I didn't particularly enjoy this book. The writing style didn't quite gel for me and the characters weren't particularly believable., overall|3|Negative
This is not a great book. It suffers from a predictable plot, cardboard characters and formaldehyde dialogue, and its success is obviously due to the imprimatur of the Oracle Oprah (and you will notice that nearly all the positive reviews here are from the distaff side), but it does have one salient virtue. It gets all the facts right.I become enraged, when reading a novel, if I notice that the author was too lazy to research (look up) what he's writing about. In detective stories such errors are usually about guns; in other novels inaccuracies are often about cars or planes. But Ms. Gruen, to her everlasting credit, has all the arcane details of the bygone circus life perfectly accurate. Because of this, I'm eager to forgive the book's other shortcomings.Now, obviously Sara Gruen did not work in a circus in the 1930s. She has never worked in a circus. She obviously learned all the arcane details of circus lore from reading other, better books. One such book isCircus Paradeby the hobo writer Jim Tully.Circus Paradeis ten times the book that this one is, and the original story of the elephant who got revenge on his mean trainer can be found in it., overall|3|Negative
Part of me feels like this book had all the trappings of a steamy romance novel without all the sexy bits. It was certainly readable enough, but the love story between Jacob and Marlena was what kept the story going and for me, it just wasn't enough. I needed more feeling, more passion, more drama, and (if this was the angle the book was going to take) more sexy bits.Having recently readThe Night Circus, I like the angle of the dark side of the lives of traveling circus people, but it almost seemed like too much of a trope when Jacob ran away with the circus. Still, I suppose enough people must have done so back in the day for it to become a saying.I thought the book was good, but I was expecting something great given the book's popularity and I just don't feel like I found it with Water for Elephants. There is some good action and some romance but to me it felt like more of a romance novel without much sex than a contemporary literary classic. Even then, I love a happy ending and couldn't wait to read this one as I got closer and closer to the climax. Just could have used more climax..., overall|3|Negative
This book flashed between Jacob as an old man and Jacob as a young man just after his parents' death.  Despite his being utterly destroyed by his parents' death, he never really mentioned it again after he joined the circus.  That seemed odd to me.  And the roughness with which he was greeted when he joined would make most ivy league softies run for the hills, so that was odd, too.  I could never understand how he was finding comfort from his parents' death by being treated like crap and working like a dog with barely any water to drink or shower.I enjoyed the elderly Jacob much more, and was charmed by the ending.  I did not enjoy the lengthy descriptions of rolling up circus tents and beating of animals.  I know it happened, but it made me feel ill.  And the sexual descriptions?  I don't like them.  I'm not a prude and I certainly enjoy sex and all its wonders, but I'm sick of reading about it in every single book I touch.  Just once, can't we just leave the details of that out and let a tale stand on its own?I guess the ending made the book worthwhile, but I wouldn't recommend it as much as others have recommended it to me., overall|3|Negative
Despite haunting cover art and a great title, despite obvious research and well thought out prose, and despite the fact that this book is the darling of the Independent Booksellers Association, I felt let down.  Part of the problem was that I expected a lot and had held this book on my shelf, until I could really savor it.  It does start out strong, and Gruen keeps her time periods well separated.  But the characters, especially the narrator, feel stock and unfinished and merely devices on which to hang the proceeds of research.  Because of the plusses of the book enumerated in the opening sentence of my review, I give 3 stars, but for the back story, it would be fewer., overall|3|Negative
I loved this story line but because of the few sexual instance, I will not recommend to my friends or my teenage children. It was not necessary to be explicit to be effective. I loved the elderly community and how the novel flashbacks between present day and depression era.  I have grandparents this age and it was true to life in many ways., overall|3|Negative
In recent years, publishers have put out a number of collections of early twentieth century circus photographs.  The photographs are intensely interesting, revealing the grime, brutality and absurdity underneath the surface glamour of the traveling circuses of that era.Gruen was inspired by the photographs to write this novel.  Gruen thoroughly researched her subject matter, collecting scores of anecdotes that revealed the brutality and desperation of that world.  She weaved the anecdotes together with a love story worthy of a three-hanky weepie from the 1930s. The combination of grit and sweetness works only to a point, but the inherently interesting nature of the subject matter managed to hold my interest to the end.To me, however, Gruen never managed to transcend her source material.  The primary problem was the narrator's voice.  Although the book was sprinkled with circus-specific vocabularly of that era, Gruen utterly fails to capture the rhythm or syntax of the time or milieu. Gruen's language felt inappropriately contemporary, which undermined the overall credibility of the story.  The subject matter cried out for a writer with an ear for the street; I kept thinking about what Damon Runyon or Ring Lardner could have done with this material.The other major problem was that Gruen over-anthropomophized and over-romanticized the animals in the story.  Gruen could have honored the animals' intelligence -- and decried the brutality of their treatment -- without veering into fantasy.In the end, while I wasn't sorry I read the book, I would have preferred to read a non-fiction account of life in the Depression-era circus from a first hand source rather than this watered down trifle., overall|3|Negative
I was excited to read this book because so many people loved it. I wanted to love it, I really did, but something just fell flat. The story was good, although I found the flashing back and forth distracting, and Sara Gruen obviously did copious amounts of research, but I just couldn't get excited about it.The character of Marlena could have been a really interesting and multi-layered person, but instead she is really only presented as a delicate flower who loves animals, married a psychopath, and sometimes displays teenage acts of defiance. Why did Jacob love her so much? There must have been more to her than that, but the reader is never let in on that secret. It's even more odd because the author is a woman. They had strong female personalities in the 1930s, I'm sure of it.As for Jacob, I thought that he displayed a lot of the conflict and inner questioning that you like to see in a lead character and his development as he gets to know the people that work for the circus was enjoyable. His relationship with the animals was obviously meant to heal him after the death of his parents, but again, I felt like that connection was rushed and then brushed aside. His relationship with Rosie, the gentle and abused Polish speaking (well, Polish understanding) elephant, was an excellent metaphor for his own gentle nature and his inability to stand up for himself and break free. Of course, in the end, everyone is free thanks to Rosie and we get the happy ending.I did not hate the book at all, but I wanted more from it. I think if the author had been allowed to write about 100 pages more, it could have been a great novel instead of just ok. The descriptions of the 1930s era circus and the care she took in researching every detail made the book very interesting. It's certainly worth a read., overall|3|Negative
I was compelled to finish the book and found the circus hx interesting.The story itself felt very Nicholas Sparks-like.So if you like his work, I think you'd like this book. The protagonist character didn't seem real...he was too good, too kind, too selfless. There were no real surprises about how the plot would unfold. But I'm glad I read it and it was a good escape., overall|3|Negative
I had heard so much talk about this book but I wasn't that impressed or intrigued. It gave me a glimpse into how hard a life the circus folks had and gave me the feeling it was the place you ended up when you had no place else to go. Definitely took the glamour out of my fascination with circus'. I am glad I read it, it wasn't a waste of time but it just wasn't as good as I expected., overall|3|Negative
I was rather disappointed with the way some of the sordid details took away from an otherwise interesting story line.  I really liked the \backstage\ peeks into the real life of what being on the road (or on the rails) could be like. And the general story line was very interesting. Not totally my cup of tea, but perchance my high expectations going in didn't help. Keep your expectations a bit lower & it may even be more enjoyable for you!!!, overall|3|Negative
Maybe it was all the hype around this book when I read it, with the movie just coming out, but I was expecting it to be better.  It was a decent book and I don't regret reading it, but it was missing something for me.  I didn't really like the ending either., overall|3|Negative
This book was fun.  The old circus is always fascinating and fun.I read the book very quickly, which is unusual for me.  If you like fun easy books, then this is a good one for you.But this book is not literature, and will be forgotten soon, and won't be read in 10 years.  It does not compare with Amy Tan, who has written literature that will probably continue to be read for a hundred years., overall|3|Negative
I'm torn on my opinion about this book which I just finished last night.  I loved the parts where Jacob was old; it successfully portrayed the anguish and confusion anyone would feel when their independence, privacy, and basically their rights are taken away from them. I really felt it.  The story grabbed me right away and continued to be enjoyable and interesting through about half the book; then it deteriorated a bit after that.  All in all though I enjoyed the book and the characters and am not sorry I read it.  Definitely easy reading.Laura, overall|3|Negative
A pleasant, quick read.  The circus details were nicely researched and its full of colorful characters.  I did, however, find the alternating time periods intrusive, and the plot sadly predictable.  I also wish the villain had been more complex -- although the author provides us with mental illness as an excuse, it seemed too convenient, and frankly, not quite clinically credible. A sweet ending, although perhaps a bit sentimental. All in all, not an original book, nor one that will stand the test of time, in my opinion, however, for all that, an agreeable way to spend the afternoon., overall|3|Negative
I have never been a fan of the circus, but I do enjoy historical fiction, so I gave this one a try. I was skeptical at best when starting. The story is mildly interesting, entertaining,and entirely predictable. The characters were shallow, not well developed, but the story moves along quickly enough so this is not a big distraction. An earlier reveiwer summarized the book as \melodramatic\ and I completely agree. It is like popcorn; light, fluffly, easy to digest and quickly forgotten. Not a bad way to spend a rainy weekend -- if there is nothiing on TV., overall|3|Negative
WE was terrific out of the starting blocks, vivid and well-researched, replete with interesting characters.  Along the way, though, it increasingly took on the feel of a creative writing exercise -- ever lighter on research, weaker on character development, and thinner on plot.  In the end, I found WE disappointing.  Like many historical novels by contemporary young authors, WE is only shallowly situated in its particular historical context (depression era, circus).  Every now and then the author tosses in a cliched reference to food lines to remind the reader of the historical moment; otherwise, nothing to suggest the landscape (literal and figurative) through which the Benzini Brothers train chugs ever onwards.  I emerged from WE with far less of a feel for circuses or society in the 1930s, or for aging and the elderly today, than I should have.  WE reads like an entertaining short story stretched to the breaking point.  There just isn't enough 'there' there..., overall|3|Negative
after a visit to the ringling circus in sarasota,i realized what a good book this is.ican appreciate the fine hardworking performing community.this is a must read for circus lovers., overall|3|Negative
The historical story was interesting and kept my attention, even though I think TOO MANY people here are giving Ms. Gruen too much credit.  Personally, I don't think she used enough historical fact and instead relied on a very formulaic plot-line that was very predictable, i.e. the love relationship, the MC and head of the animals will be foiled in the end, and the preposterous ending where our dear wonderful elephant kills the cruel animal director.  Too contrived for me.I can understand the popularity of this book.  I cannot understand why it's a runaway bestseller., overall|3|Negative
Nice enjoyable reading.  A very nostalgic look at what circus life must have been during those times.  A very fun book!, overall|3|Negative
If it doesn't depress you reading about getting old and senile and cruelty to animals, this is the book for you! Yes, it is very, very well written which is why I couldn't stop reading it, but it is very, very depressing., overall|3|Negative
I bought this book when it was a Kindle deal of the day, although I had long had it on my wish list due to the many rave reviews it had received.  I have never been fascinated by circuses, so maybe that's why I didn't find this story to be very engaging.  The characters never seemed very real, and the story just seemed too implausible for my taste.  I did enjoy the device of having the protagonist tell the story from his point of view at age 90 and at 23, and I thought the chapters taking the 90 year old's viewpoint were far better written than the rest of the book.  While I didn't dislike the book, I certainly do not think it deserves the high praise bestowed upon it by the majority of the reviewers., overall|3|Negative
The circus part of this novel is great and beautifully written and I really enjoyed it. Two things bothered me however; he really didn't do anything veterinariany after the initial diagnosing of the horse and the romance between Jacob and Marlena wasn't well evolved.overall it was good bathtub reading and it made me more interested in the circus., overall|3|Negative
I heard they made a movie of this so I bought the book but was disappointed in it.  Maybe it was just me.  Never did like circus., overall|3|Negative
I am not sure what I see all the hype about for this book but it was a pageturner, I'll give it that. The writing was very well done as Jacob told his tale of being in the circus all these years later in a nursing home, forgotten and old in body, not in mind.The life of the circus was clearly visible while reading this story as was the life in a nursing home. At first I was more interested to have the chapters go back to the present because the past was so horrible to witness but then his present life wasn't that cozy either.The ending was the best part of the book, for me, as it was most tender. It wasn't a bad read but not an entertaining one., overall|3|Negative
I think really I would give this three and a half stars but because we can't do that I've gone with three. This book was really well written and in turn I was able to picture the characters as clearly as if they were people in the flesh. One particular character August got on my nerves and made me so mad I can't describe but that shows what great writing it was. Good book about how life is travelling with a circus., overall|3|Negative
Overall, I'm rather underwhelmed based on the hype around this book.The details of the Great Depression were amazing, and seemed accurate enough.  The writing didn't get in the way too much but seemed amateurish at times.  I spent the ENTIRE afternoon, EACH and EVERY ONE was used three times in a single chapter, and unimaginative clich&eacute;s one after another such as quick as lightning were not uncommon.  I assumed this was Gruen's first novel and was quite surprised to find out it was her third.The morality of the story fell very flat as well.  The characters kind of want to do the right thing, but I wasn't sold on their move toward adultery based on initial attraction.  A lot of people feel an attraction toward someone who is not their spouse.  That doesn't mean it is right or destined.  Greun's inability to convince me that Jacob and Marlena were any different was a major failing of the novel for me.How many meals can people in the Great Depression skip without even thinking about it.  At least a dozen times through the book people skipped meals because they didn't feel like eating.I had high expectations so I'm judging harshly.  Did not meet expectations.  Not a bad book by any means, but far short of novel-of-the-year quality., overall|3|Negative
This book is just a fun read. Nothing deep or realistic about the story. Nothing to be learned. No point. Just entertainment. Don't expect to connect with any of the characters because they are totally unrealistic. This book is just pure fantasy, almost childish. I did find the book worth reading, not a waste of time because it is entertaining. However, am I compelled to buy another book from this author? Probably not. Am I going to recommend it to my friends? Probably so with the disclaimer that it is a light fun read., overall|3|Negative
I liked the ending of this book better than any other part. This mans life after the death of his parents was hard, as expected. It dragged on for me, until the end when he was living his last years of his life in a nursing home. his children disregarded him emotionally. They went to visit, but real interest in him was gone. They did their duty. He escapes in the end and lives out his life with the circus. The place where he lived most of his life after his parents death.It was good, not great for me., overall|3|Negative
i didn't think that iwould like this book, but found that once i became involved with the time period and the characters i did like the book.  it was a book club selection from one of my three books clubs, otherwise iwould not have chosen it.  but after reading did like it.  because of the circus performers handicaps, it may not be appropriate for all readers but the story is so strong that the reader soon forgets the less desirable features of the story., overall|3|Negative
This is a 300 page book which took about 200 pages to grab me. It felt like the first 2/3 of this book just created background, letting us know the various characters in the circus and giving us a sense of life in that traveling circus of the 1930s. All of this was well written and interesting, but there was not much of a story until the final 100 pages, or at least it never grabbed me until then. I didn't start to really care about the narrator until then. Those final 100 pages were great fun, and I loved the ending of this book. I recommend this book, but cannot quite give it four stars when I spent most of the book waiting for things to pick up. If you read this, just sit back and enjoy the good portrait of circus life in the depression. Don't be impatient, like me. Eventually, this picks up steam and delivers so well. The ending is one of the best I have read in so long., overall|3|Negative
Gruen's novel is the story of one man's life.  It is presented both as a recollection of a 93 year old man reflecting on his youth, as well as the current story of the matured man.  The central story revolves around a character that drops out of school after a family tragedy.  Being the depression and few work opportunities available, the character finds himself working with a circus.  The author clearly researched the subject and provides historical photos to provide the reader assistance with the visualization.  Overall, the book was enjoyable up until the last chapter.  I feel like I would have been much happier if the author left this chapter off all together as it in implausible and affected my entire view of the book., overall|3|Negative
Did I only read this because it is supposed to have been a NaNoWriMo book? Yes. Does Sara Gruen mention that \fact\ ANYWHERE in the book acknowledgments, on her website or in interviews? No. (Although she doesn't contradict the claim, which has been made very publicly by one of NaNoWriMo's founders.) Was it still worth the read? Meh. I don't know. I guess. Whatever. It wasn't a waste of time to read it, but it didn't enrich me or leave me with any lingering thoughts or feelings about the book. As a matter of fact, I barely remember what it was about (I want to say circuses?). All in all, it was a zero balance book. Some good footnotes though. I'd definitely recommend those.For more reviews, please visit my blog, CozyLittleBookJournal., overall|3|Negative
OK, it's not fine literature (so critics, would you please lighten up?), but it was lots of fun -- a glimpse into the era and life of the circus.  I honestly couldn't put it down and felt good when it ended.  Will this be on my list of all-time favorites?  No, but I appreciated the author's research into the topic; I learned something and enjoyed myself. What more could I want from a beach read?, overall|3|Negative
Life in the circus during the Depression is probably depicted very accurately; times were hard and people were desperate.  The circus setting for the book is excellent; but, in my opinion, the plot is somewhat weak and the ending was less than I had hoped for.As others have described the scenes vary from life in a nursing home to Jacob's past life in the circus.  I actually liked that juxtapostion and felt it was done well.  I loved the pictures in the book and felt they added a lot.  In short, not a bad read, just not as gripping as I had hoped it would be., overall|3|Negative
Not very exciting but a decent read., overall|3|Negative
I really enjoyed the juxtaposition between the 90 (or was it 93?)-year-old Jacob and the young man Jacob who ran away to join the circus in 1931. However, towards the end, the 1931 story devolves into a bit of a soap opera the I didn't really enjoy. Other than that I found it a lively read...but I wanted more about Rosie, the Polish-understanding elephant who everyone thinks is dumb because she doesn't understand English. Every moment where she is on the page, the book is highly entertaining, but I found parts of the book slow-moving and lackluster when the story so lends its self to being bouncy and light (it is about a circus, Miss Gruen!). People \locked eyes\ 10 too many times for me. I loved the parts when Jacob is 90~~or is it 93~~(he can't remember)and his body, his family and life, in general has betrayed him. If you are looking for some lightweight entertainment and a quick read, I would recommend this book. The biggest thing that bugged me about this edition (and many other books) are the book club discussion questions at the end of the book. These type of questions are too lengthy to actually be part of a lively book discussion (believe me, I know...whenever someone in my book group chooses to go this route, the discussion dies a hideous death). These questions are better suited for essay questions., overall|3|Negative
Water for Elephants is a small step up from chick-lit, which isn't necessarily a bad thing, if it's what you're looking for.  A great read for the beach, or a good light read in-bewteen heavier or darker novels.As mentioned in other reviews, the character development was on the poor side, and the plot was pretty predictable (kind of hokey).  I felt the reading level was quite low, which made it a quick read, but not the brightest one.  Everything was pretty spoon-fed to the reader...there was no need for me to think about anything.  I prefer a bit more of a challenge., overall|3|Negative
Sure it is a well researched book.  The detail and description of circus life is very realistic and at times downright disgusting.  But what else does this book have that made one of my friends rave that this was the best book she had every read.  I'll tell you what....nothing.  I partly read this book on the recommendation of friend but I also wanted to read it because it was described as a murder mystery book.  A mystery murder it is not and by the end of this book I wanted all of the main characters to go away too!  I won't spill any beans but frankly this book deserved less time on the best seller's list and more time on the bottom of my discard pile (the books I will never read again or books that I would like to forget).  You make up your mind., overall|3|Negative
Let me say at the outset of this review that I usually read literary fiction.  This book was a departure for me, one that I took on the faith of the 1600+ positive reviews.  Those reviews misled me, I'm afraid.It's mystifying why so many reviewers loved this book.  It's not a bad story, a fairly straightforward narrative without any literary flourishes, written in plain language and present tense. Certainly the author did her research so she could use the right lingo and details.  Flash-forwards to the protagonist's current life in a nursing home only provide a pretense for the ending, unfortunately.  The plot is so thin that until about 3/4ths of the way through, I was convinced there wasn't one.  Likewise, the characters are fairly thinly realized, except for the \paranoid schizophrenic\ villain and the intelligent elephant, Rosie.  I found myself wondering why I even liked the protagonist, who fashioned himself as a kind of savior for a couple of victimized lesser players.  Recently bereaved, the protagonist's experience of bereavement is completely absent from the book, which I found unrealistic at best.That said, I was surprised that I stuck it out and read to the end, which is why I didn't give the book a lower rating.  In all honesty, the last quarter of the book is quite possibly the best, when the main character finally acts on all his misguided desires. However, the final scene disappointed me; it seemed a bit too contrived.Light reading, this one.  If you want to read for 30 minutes before bed, this is a good bet, because it doesn't not require much thought or deconstruction., overall|3|Negative
The quality of the writing is not in question. My problem is that I did not find the characters or plot to be engaging. I did not enjoy the book and have no interest in seeing the movie., overall|3|Negative
This is a well researched and reasonably well written book,in the sense I began to care what happens to the main characters. There are serious weaknesses, though, which are very irritating. Compared to all the prattle about his falling in love at first sight with a woman, there's not much in this book about this veterinarian's love for animals. He just has a dim realization that he's got to take care of them because in the midst of all the cruelty, he's all they've got. The end of this vets years in the circus are compressed too much, so the book switches from very great detail of his life as a young man, all of a sudden, to his life as an ancient in a nursing home!I am an animal lover, and felt cheated that this circus based book was just another love story, and all about the people. There are some remarkable strenghts, too..Ms. Gruen's description of the elderly in assisted living is brilliant and moving. Though I enjoyed the book, it's not a keeper and I will be passing it on to a friend without any reluctance to give the book away. M, overall|3|Negative
I was torn between two or three stars. I read this book for my book club, otherwise it is unlikely I would have picked it up considering my backlog.Personally I didn't find anything wow-ish or over the top astounding with this story. Besides that it takes place in a circus. It had its moments of course, which makes me think that what really makes you like a book is not sometimes the overall story, but a couple of scenes that really stand out. And this had a handful of those, especially those set in the present time, which were the only ones to actually pull my emotional strings, which usually doesn't take much I'm afraid, and considering that this book didn't stir much in me overall. Not even the traditional `big twist' scene riled me up. I actually read a paragraph past it then did a double take on `oh that was suppose to be it'., overall|3|Negative
It was good, much better than the movie.  It held my attention and provided much of  a circus background. It was interesting., overall|3|Negative
The story was good but had too many swear words for my taste. The circus storyline was very interesting (ie, how a circus works, what happens behind the scenes, etc). I was also surprised to find a good description of getting old. If you're interested in reading just that part of the book, skip the chapters with pictures at the beginning. In doing so, you'll also skip most of the foul language.I've given this book 3 stars, but it really should be 2 and a half., overall|3|Negative
WATER FOR ELEPHANTS gives the reader an insight to the innards of the early circuses,  It is well written.  I preferred the movie., overall|3|Negative
Normally I wouldn't have picked this up. The circus is not really a topic that interests me, and cruelty to animals really upsets me. My coworker really liked this one and talked me into reading it.I tried to get into it, I really did, but this book draaagged for me and I'm not exactly sure why. Honestly I had a very hard time finishing it, and I'm usually a very quick reader.It seemed to have all the makings for a good story (A decent beginning, middle and end...love story...drama...etc etc.) Obviously there are a lot of people out there that really enjoy it. I'm glad it worked for some people. I wish I had found it as compelling as everyone else, but for whatever reason I just could *not* connect with the characters emotionally. The forbidden love story left me feeling bored, and I didn't feel all that sympathetic towards the lovers. The only character that really was interesting to me was August, the cruel/charming/abusive husband. He was definitely the highlight of the book for me.Overall, I guess I wil give it a 3. It was okay, not poorly written, and I could see it being a 5 star for some people...just not me., overall|3|Negative
The story of this plot-driven book keeps you turning the pages, but I did not much care for the characters. They didn't have much depth; they could have been developed so much more. In addition, there are quite a few scenes that are either offensive or gross or both, apparently for sheer sensationalism. The circus train theme is interesting and fun to read, and this is what keeps the book going. One scene near the end depicted the main characters in a church; I thought this would be developed further. It turns out this was just added in to try to show the morality of Jacob, perhaps to foreshadow that he could never kill Marlena's husband August. Jacob started out at the beginning of the book as a naive innocent kid. How he could change into such an experienced risk-taker in a period of just a few months confused me. He certainly doesn't seem the church-going type by the end of the novel. And the fact that he and Marlena end up together, with lots of animals, by way of Rosie eliminating August, is just plain silly., overall|3|Negative
As I read this book, I found that it was continuously straight-forward. There weren't any twists really, any shockers, and nothing that wasn't really expected. The \shocking\ ending was more of just an \hmm, all right.\ It didn't really change anything nor did it affect how I felt towards any of the characters.The story is a good one that did keep me reading and interested. It shifted between the past and present day as the protagonist continued to reminisce about previous years and reflected on his current life. I did not really get connected to any of the characters and I just felt like there was something missing from this book that I just couldn't put my finger on.The characters were interesting, the story was good, and the setting was of course new and refreshing. But it just seemed something was lacking. As I was reading the \Reader's Questions\ in the back contemporary books are starting to put in, I found that they weren't many powerful themes or internalizations to take away from this book. That doesn't mean the book was bad because it was just a straight-forward story, it just was missing something.All the parts woven together make an all right read, but nothing amazing or enlightening., overall|3|Negative
This book tells of a man whose experiences as a young man are recalled when he's in his 90's. the writing is vivid and the experiences of the man when he's young and old are effectively told. My imagination was captured and I thoroughly enjoyed this book., overall|3|Negative
It was an OK book. I was expecting it to be really great and it didn't really live up to the hype. Maybe the movie is better, overall|3|Negative
There are some brilliant scenes in this book. Gruen does a great job capturing the era and the characters who led the circus life. I re-read the last chapter a few times and think she had a few too many martinis and left out some key info that would have made the ending tighter.I do want to see the movie despite mixed reviews., overall|3|Negative
I bought this book because it was a Kindle Daily Deal and I'm glad I didn't spend more than $1.99 on it. It was an interesting read, but it did seem very contrived in a lot of places. I know nothing about circuses or being a vet, but even so, the book seemed to pick up only on meaty half-realities, kind of like she wanted to shock or surprise or otherwise manipulate the reader. I didn't like the present day parts...why was that necessary? Kind of like an easy way to let us know that the main character (POSSIBLER SPOILER, BUT ONLY IF YOU DON'T READ THE FIRST CHAPTER) survived and did okay.I think, in short, it was a very melodramatic book. Evil, moustache-twirling villian(s) (did he HAVE to be Jewish? Really?) Sweet, beautiful heroine. Smart, masculine hero. Lots of supporting characters. That said, the hero had a lot of failings. I should have liked that (deviating from the melodrama), but his failings seemed nonsensical. Why did he stand by so many times when animals were being harmed?I didn't hate the book. I read it and enjoyed it, more or less, but it didn't seem like any kind of great literature. I'm surprised it was made into a movie, in some ways. In others, it seems just right as the characters seemed to have been written with the big screen in mind., overall|3|Negative
It's OK.  It's long and not really eventful until the end.  It took me a bit to get into it, overall|3|Negative
I found this book to be an engaging and interesting read.  There were several authenticity and continuity issues that bothered me.  During the era of this situation, Fox Terriers were very common and used a great deal in entertainment.  Jack Russel terriers are a relatively recent introduction to the US.Jacob gives his watch away, and then it reappears.  There are two or 3 other gaffs along this line that are annoying.  It would be great if the author would put out a new edition with these things corrected.Rose, the elephant is the real heroine of this novel, and she provides the frame for the story., overall|3|Negative
It's tough to be the sour note in a chorus of \Hallelujahs.\  \Water for Elephants\ disappointed me. I believed and liked the narrator, Jacob, a snarky old coot who apparently couldn't stop complaining. I wanted to like this story. But I couldn't.The characters who accompanied Jacob on his journey were so strange and unbelievable that empathy was unachievable for me. To see them as anything but gargoylesque charicatures was impossible. Perhaps if they hadn't been circus characters, but everyday kinds of people like grocers and real estate agents they would have been more believable.  Perhaps if they had not been so extreme in their outlooks, histories and passions they would have seemed real. But we shall never know.As it stands, the book is beautifully written, with all the skill of language and prose that one could desire.  It has an important theme and is chock full of human frailty, and human victory.  It even has elephant victory! But it has a singular deadly flaw that scars the book so much for me that I can not enjoy it or recommend it.I AM glad to be in the minority with regard to this book.  I AM glad for all those who are not bothered by the characters. May you read on in happiness., overall|3|Negative
I appreciated the back and forth of the book, 93 year old Jacob, and then back to 23 year old Jacob.  I must admit that I appreciated the old man's story in the nursing home more than the kid on the train, but that's just me.  The one thing I noticed right off the bat is that this writer took very seriously - \don't tell, show\ and show she does in sometimes tedious plodding, even disgusting detail.This can actually become tiresome.I was surprised because my favorite author is a \show-er\, and I love to read her work, but maybe it's the fact that she has never written something as long as this.In anycase, I have not gone through the thousands of reviews there are, but there are over 1500 5 star reviews, and I can't help but wonder - if the protagonist was a woman, and what happened to Jacob that night he drank entriely too much had happened to her - would it not be considered a rape or sexual assault of some kind?  Has the definition changed since I was younger?  I just have a big feeling that if it was a woman who was drunk out of her mind and two overly friendly men thought they would *welcome* her to the circus at that very time in her state of no mind - it would be all hell and high water in here - not 1500 five star reviews.  I dont understand why it's different.  Is that why if a man is raped, he would rather suffer in shame than speak up?  Does he wonder who will take him serously?  Who will care?You know what else gets me?  When you take away the wordiness of this book, the premise, plot and story of young Jacob is so painfully simple it's not even funny, there is NO development of the relationship between he and Marlena.  *Spoiler Alert*  It all boils down to boy meets girl, boy falls in love with girl, girl gets beat up by her abusive husband, boy hates husband, husband gets miraculously killed - boy runs away with girl they have tons of kids and live happily ever after.  The story of the circus was quite honestly just alright I dont understand the utter praise for this book. Is it because we are shown the innerworkings of a long ago circus, is it because its ending seemed shocking?  Is it because four of the characters we get to know are sacrificed in the closing chapters?  I have no idea - something has happened in our society where things that are just \ok\ are slapped with excellent and pushed ahead with \mind blowing\.  The same thing happened with \The Help\  - I actually saw someone refer to that one as a \classic\ - seriously?  You compare this to Frankenstein and Pride and Prejudice and Portrait of the Artist - really?If It weren't for 93 year old Jacob's nursing home story, I would not have given this book 3 stars.  I'd be down there hated with the ones and twos.Proudly hated with the ones and twos., overall|3|Negative
I got this book because it had such good reviews and it was recommended in my school library.  I liked it but I wasn't grabbed by it.  It's not horrible at all but just not my favorite., overall|3|Negative
I thought the setting and milieu were much more interesting than the characters and their development. The background was interesting but the characters were not. They lacked depth and seemed cast as types rather than developed as characters who are realistic in their setting., overall|3|Negative
A nice, simple story.  Entertaining, but not great literature.  Good circus anecdotes.  Reasonably well researched, but I noticed a few inaccuracies.  Overall, I was glad I read it., overall|3|Negative
So I read this book WELL before the movie came out. I was intrigued by a story that had a backdrop in a circus.But I was left really disappointed. I can't quite put my finger on it, but I just didn't connect with the story at all. It may have just been the timing was wrong for me to read this story, but I was not into it (and I find myself rarely disappointed with books). I think there wasn't enough magic in it for me. I didn't see the basis for the romance. Maybe I need to try to pick it up again, but I was left so disappointed that I really don't want to., overall|3|Negative
This novel flows smoothly. It is a linear type of story line, once one gets into the past. What I did not like about this novel is that the author is a female, while the protagonist is a male. One of the things we studied in literature was that a female author cannot truly portray a male character. And in this case I agree. Jacob is more girl/boy than man. He is cowered by Marlena's husband all the time. He is unadventurous when it comes to sexual escapades; he is just too shy, too immature to appeal to me. Also, the love story was not developed well at all. There is no palpable attraction. Marlena is created into the damsel in distress, stuck with an abusive husband, and Jacob is thrown in to rescue her. I think this damsel in distress aspect has been over done. However, it may have worked had the author actually spent a bit more time on developing the h and h's attraction, relationship.However, I did enjoy all the author's research. She did a good job transporting me on that circus train, living the way those people probably did., overall|3|Negative
I have to admit I enjoyed this book - the settings were very interesting, and the main character, Jacob, was very likable.However, I was incredibly disappointed by the love story that takes center stage. If you're looking for a book with  a female lead you can root for, this is DEFINITELY not it. Marlena is the main star of the equestrian act and loves horses and for that - and that alone - you are supposed to love her.The two of them - Jacob and Marlena - bond over their shared passion for animals (he's the circus vet) and hiding from her crazy husband, but there is no real spark between them to latch onto as a reader, and their whole relationship leaves something to be desired. Actual chemistry, maybe?In addition to that, the storyline is often incredibly contrived, to a point where by the end I couldn't bring myself to buy into any of it anymore.An amusing read, just the same, but I didn't find it to be all it was cracked up to be., overall|3|Negative
I bought this book out of curiousity and the big hoopla over what a \sleeper hit\ this story had become,I love animals,so I gave it a try.One of the other Amazon customer reviewers said that the main character was talking to a reporter. No, he's not talking to anyone, just us, but I was bothered HOW he was communicating to us.Since everyone else has synopsized the plot ad nauseum. I'll just report the weaknesses in this book.First of all, very little elephant!!! Not Water For Elephant(s), but Water for ELEPHANT, ONE elephant. And very little elephant. Whatever research she did on these animals was tiny, miniscule. I could have gotten more into the mind of pachyderms by watching a Nat.Geo or Animal Planet special.As for his being a veterninarian. I too own horses, been around them and vets for nearly 5 decades. What little circus animal veterinary work Ms. Gruen describes in the book she probably got watching a cable TV station animal special.I also concur with the veterinarian reviewer on the slaughter of the horses. If a horse is forced to watch the other beside it die violently, most likely when it smells all that blood, you can bet the ranch it would break its' halter or rope and be nine miles gone.I also found it very distracting the numerous referrals to minute body languages while the characters talked. Also, even though the story started pretty promising, once Jacob got established as an employee in the circus, it bottomed out into nothing but petty bickerings and jealousies among all the circus employees. Yawn....It was fast reading, but I started hoping the thing would end soon. And, yeah, the animal stampede at the end I wasn't buying. I think Ms. Gruen could have just watched Nat. Geo or Animal Planet replays of elephants gone bonkers on video in circuses and let Rosie the elephant just get even by squishing those who had abused her., overall|3|Negative
I liked this book a lot.  And there were parts where I couldn't wait to find out what happened.  The book went back and forth between the 1930's and present time.  And I couldn't wait, sometimes, to see what the next part was.Then, I went to a book club and the people fawned over the book -- especially the incredible research, the way the employees and animals were treated and the shocking ending.  Well, that made me like the book less.  I don't care how wonderful the research is, if it's not written well.  And a lot of the things that the author wanted you to feel sympathy for, I just didn't.  I'm sorry that Camel got Jamaica giner paralysis, but he was a horrible alcoholic and addict who would drink anything to get a buzz.  Something was bound to happen.  And the way the employees and animals were treated -- was that really a shock to anyone?  Did people not know that?  Animals were always abused and it was the depression -- not paying someone and throwing them off a train is not unexpected.  And the \shocking\ ending.  Gee whiz -- a 4 year old could see that coming.  ***SPOILER NEXT*** From the moment the author mentioned that the circus was in town and that Jacob's people always came on Sundays, I knew they woulnd't show up.  ***SPOILER ENDS***.So, I liked the book, I liked the story.  I didn't like people all ga ga over facts that should be common sense.  This book should be read as a work of fiction (as it is) and just enjoy it for that., overall|3|Negative
I think that it was very slow to start and had a lot of places that the story line crept to the point that I wanted to put the book down.  The last 1/3 of the book was excellent.  I would have liked to seen the first two thirds of the book to have been faster moving., overall|3|Negative
With its spotlight on elephants, Gruen's romantic page-turner hinges on the human-animal bonds that drove her debut and its sequel (Riding Lessons and Flying Changes)--but without the mass appeal that horses hold. The novel, told in flashback by nonagenarian Jacob Jankowski, recounts the wild and wonderful period he spent with the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth, a traveling circus he joined during the Great Depression. When 23-year-old Jankowski learns that his parents have been killed in a car crash, leaving him penniless, he drops out of Cornell veterinary school and parlays his expertise with animals into a job with the circus, where he cares for a menagerie of exotic creatures[...] He also falls in love with Marlena, one of the show's star performers--a romance complicated by Marlena's husband, the unbalanced, sadistic circus boss who beats both his wife and the animals Jankowski cares for. Despite her often clich&eacute;d prose and the predictability of the story's ending, Gruen skillfully humanizes the midgets, drunks, rubes and freaks who populate her book., overall|3|Negative
I had heard a lot about this book and was excited to read it. It may have suffered from too much anticipation but I wasn't enthralled. I thought it was okay. I found it patched together and in need of a little relief. From old age home to parent's dying to hardships of circus life, I just felt weighed down., overall|3|Negative
It was a pretty good book, but  I had no idea there would  be so much foul language and  sexual material in it. I was pretty disappointed in that., overall|3|Negative
I enjoyed this book, but did not find it to be the \home run\ I expected or was led to believe it would be. The most moving, authentic passages were delivered by 93-year-old Jacob Jankowski. You just gotta love this elderly gent. The chapters in his voice gave me a new understanding of what it means to be old and alone; the fact that Gruen could craft such a believable male character, to my way of thinking anyhow, redeems many of this book's other flaws.I read numerous positive and negative reviews on amazon, and I agree with several other reviewers that Jacob can sometimes be a bit frustrating, in that he fails to take appropriate action when it seems most called for, and at other times gets all up-in-arms and confrontational over far lesser infractions. But to me, this makes him a human and believable character. Haven't we all \lamed out\ when we should have taken action, or overreacted when we shouldn't have? What I hate even more is when a character is always ready, willing and able to jump through impossible hoops to save the day. If I only wanted that in my literary characters, I'd stick to James Bond novels. I do, however, agree with many other reviewers who pointed out that some dialogue is a bit too pat and unbelievable for both the era and the circumstances in which this story is supposed to have taken place.But what I simply do not get is why so many readers are up in arms about the so-called graphic sex scenes. They were neither numerous nor particularly offensive, but I guess sensibilities are wide-ranging where sex is concerned. I suppose the sideshow scene with Barbara and her magnificent boobs could be characterized as somewhat sexist, but so what? It was provocative and engaging. And while that scene and Jacob's \initiation\ could be labeled both gratuitous and graphic,  I would argue that any graphic sex scene is gratuitous. Writers always have the option of \panning to the flickering candle\ rather than telling us what the heck is happening. I give an author points for taking the risk of telling me. Besides which, I'd consider the absence of raunchy performances and sexual hanky-panky in a book about a traveling circus to be an inauthentic, gaping omission. So while I could have taken or left these two particular scenes, I believe they were well written and have their place in this story.All of that said, my biggest complaints about this book are Marlena's shallowness, and the mounting melodrama as the story nears its (preposterous) ending. Though Marlena is perhaps the second most important character in this novel, I found her to be vapid, insipid and uninspiring. I thought Rosemary (the assisted-living home nurse) was far more endearing and believable, for as minor a character as she was. True, the villains (Uncle Al, August) were likewise a bit \canned,\ but I can forgive a lack of character development for certain secondary characters because, after all, an author has but so many pages in which to tell her story. But Marlena, as the circus's star performer and Jacob's love interest, should have been better developed.  And I suppose I simply must accept the ending for what it is--something of an outrageous letdown.Despite these shortcomings, I enjoyed Water for Elephants. It drew me in enough to hold my interest, and it certainly has its strong points. For example, I thought the author did a fabulous job bringing the animal characters to life as sentient, unique beings. I loved the aged Jacob, and liked his young counterpart only slightly less. I will admit, I expect more from (and am therefore harder on) traditionally-published books than self-published ones so I gave Water for Elephants three stars rather than four. If a writer is lucky enough to get published, then I hold him or her to a higher standard than schlubs like myself who try to put a good, thought-provoking product before the public without the benefit of editors, professional cover designers or national distribution networks. More power to Sara Gruen for being among the fortunate few to land a publishing deal., overall|3|Negative
It got slow in the middle.  The ending made the book worth reading.  It was very sad to read how animals are treated by circus handlers., overall|3|Negative
This book was a very easy read I will say that. It was very accurate with the  time frame an  all the  language used. Other than that the story wasn't very captivating. There was no twists or anything really interesting. I wonder if the movie is actually better than the book., overall|3|Negative
It was just not what I thought it would be. I'm sure it's a good book, just not for me., overall|3|Negative
This was an interesting one for me.  I've had this book on my \to read\ shelf at home for over a year and never picked it up until now.  I have no idea why.  I was excited when I bought it and then never did anything about it.  Now the movie is coming out and I wanted to read the book first.The old man telling the story really pulled me in and came to life for me.  I really felt for him!  And laughed at him because he is quite funny.  He is flashing back to his youth when he joined the circus and fell in love.The author has amazing talent.  She really paints a vivid picture.  Unfortunately, too well at times.  There were some really nasty, crude scenes that set the tone for the book and the train life and the depression, but they were way too much for me.  Very disturbing. If you don't like books with sex scenes, then avoid this one!  They paint a picture that you would rather not have in your head.Once you get past all that crude stuff, then the book comes alive.  You get sucked into the life of this cute elephant and of the love story between Marlena and Jacob.  Unforgettable, that is for sure.  Moved me almost to tears at a few points with the elephant.Because of the crude stuff I would have to rate this just 3 out of 5 *'s.  If some of that would have been cut out, then it easily would have made 5*'s.  I hope some of it is cut out of the movie!, overall|3|Negative
This book was well written but I have to admit I had difficulty getting through some of the elephant torture passages, in fact I am still cringing thinking of them, (not that some humans didn't face some awful abuse as well in this book)..., overall|3|Negative
This book is so-so though it seems to be very well researched in terms of both circus lore and the depression.  I can understand anyone with a passion for the circus or the 1930's getting excited about it but for the average reader it has nothing special to offer so I am shocked by the positive attention and time on the best sellers list this book has generated.  Without giving any spoilers away let me say the book is very cliched and predictable and the leading human characters are all undeveloped and quite stereotyped.  The animals are perhaps given a little more rounded personalities.  The circus portion of the story ends in a fantastic and unbelievable manner and the other story in which our hero is now an old man in a nursing home ends in just as unlikely manner.  Others have commented on the great cover and I wonder if that is responsible for the surprising success of this book.  THE CIRCUS IN WINTER by Cathy Day which came out a couple of years ago is a much better written book and is just as well researched with a very similar setting., overall|3|Negative
Water for Elephants... what can I say?  The characters were all a bit sad and depressing.  The story was not at all uplifting and left me feeling a little down.  What is good is that you get a great insight into the travelling circus, training around spending one night in each location.  Poor workers had such a hard time of it.  Worth reading but don't expect a happy little love story with this one.  Oh and I thought the ending was quite unbelieveable., overall|3|Negative
I really wanted to like this book, I really enjoyed learning some of the slang and history of the circus.  I like the circus and I was told I'd fall in love with the animals and the characters of this book.  The fact is I hated the raunchy descriptions surely we could do without those.  I felt the book to be dark, twisted and weird.  I did indeed love the animals but didn't like the characters.  Honestly - I only read half the book because of these things.  Too bad., overall|3|Negative
This was an easy read but too much sex and a depressing theme.  It did have a surprise ending.  I will compare it to the movie, overall|3|Negative
I felt that some mention should have been made of the large amount of sex and violence this book contained. The story line was interesting, and I enjoyed the surprise ending.  In a good book, with a lot going for it, I don't see the need for graphic sex and violence.  Maybe that's what sells, and picks up movie contracts., overall|3|Negative
Liked the two time frames but it was a little confusing at times.  Overall it was a good book with timeless themes., overall|3|Negative
The book gives a different picture of what goes on behind the performance.  Some parts are very hard to shallow and hope they weren't remotely accurate., overall|3|Negative
I liked the book by all means and it is a good quick read. I guess it didn't grab me like it did others though. The circus theme was a bonus and very different., overall|3|Negative
Presented through a series of flashbacks by a cantankerous nursing home patient, the story begins as Jacob Jankowski is confronted with the death of his parents.  Hastily, he drops out of school and flees to the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth.  After a fair amount of drama, Jacob is offered a position as vet with the traveling circus.  What follows is, well... a circus - especially when Rosie shuffles into town...Honestly, we could go either way on this novel.  For some reason we are drawn to the enchantment of the circus, so the setting was interesting enough to keep our attention.  We thought the novel captured the spirit of the traveling circus and pulled the curtain on some of the more sleazy aspects of the business.  The treatment of the animals was at times appalling as was the practice of chucking circus workers from moving trains.In many ways, the characters were almost as entertaining as the circus.  Jacob was complex and real.  The lovely Marlena was just as intriguing and provocative in real life as she was in her animal act.  The head animal trainer was pretty much a complete jerk-bag throughout.  Rosie the Elephant was incredibly enduring and a formidable animal character.  And the bearded lady... yeesh.So why didn't we love this book? We're not sure.  It just felt like something was missing.  Maybe there was too much bitterness and anger in the narrator or maybe the relationship between Jacob and Marlena could have been developed more or maybe a high flying monkey act should have been incorporated into the performance.  Whatever the case Water for Elephants was a good book, but not great, and definitely not in our top 10 for 2011.  Finally, with Christmas right around the corner, can we please have a ginormous protective and lovable elephant for Christmas?  You can keep the hippopotamus!, overall|3|Negative
Predictable read. Better that nothing, but would not recommend to anyone who seeks adventure in a book. Rather boring. Sorry, overall|3|Negative
This book is well written, well researched, and overall an interesting story. That said, without a doubt I would have closed it and never finished it due to the abuse of the animals, but I read until the end it because it was a book club choice. This is not a book for animal lovers and I found it to be incredibly painful. Those who torture animals are the scum of the earth in my opinion and I don't enjoy reading about them. Nothing personal Sara Gruen, you are a good writer., overall|3|Negative
I really wanted to like this book.And I did enjoy the circus parts.But part of the book was told from the perspective of the main character as a nursing home patient. That part was a real downer.It gave me the same feeling as reading \Julie and Julia\., overall|3|Negative
As a retired circus performer and amateur circus historian, I read Water for Elephants with some hesitancy.  Most circus fiction is hardly worth reading, written by people who have no background in the business.  There was much play about Gruen's doing historical research for her novel at the Circus World Museum in Baraboo.  And there is a lot of interesting history in it.  But there is also some absolutely incredibly unbelieveable stuff, too.  Here are some glaring examples of what I consider to be the \goofiness\ of the novel.Benzini Bros is portrayed as a 50 car railroad circus.  If you know anything about the railroad shows of the era depicted in the book this would have been second in size only to Ringling Bros.and Barnum&Bailey; Circus.  Most circuses of that time, even the smallest shows that traveled by trucks rather than by rail, had at least one elephant -- at least one!  But here is this 50 car railroad show without any!  And during the Great Depression elephants were not that hard to come by as times were tough and shows folded (went broke) and had equipment and animals, including elephants, for sale -- either by choice or by the Sheriff's gavel at forced auctions.  Just amazing that Uncle Al the owner had been unable to get an elephant until Rosy came along.Then Uncle Al  decides to blow his bookings and take his whole darn show out to where he eventually buys his elephant!!!  If there is any rule you don't break with a circus it is that you do not walk away (blow) your bookings, your route!!  If you had a circus the size of this one in the novel your daily nut (expenses) would be very great.  You cannot afford to blow your booked dates unless there was something very major like a foot and mouth disease outbreak that could cause the show to be quarantined for months.  Or the weather in the area you have been book is so bad, you cannot show because of flooding, heavy rains, snow, etc. Or you were following some other shows who have played the area and business is therefore bad.  But you just don't pack up your who show, blow booked dates, and head on out to get some new attraction!!  The way it worked (and still works) was that word of a show folding would be advertised in The Billboard, the show trade publication of the time, and buyers like Uncle Al or his agent would come out to where the defunct show's assets were going to be sold or auctioned off and then the bidding or buying would take place.  If you got your elephant, it was trucked back or loaded on to a railroad freight car and sent to wherever your show was.  But you didn't take your whole show and ship it out to pick up an elephant -- it's a wonder Uncle Al succeeded in building a 50 car show at all with this kind of management!Also I find it kind of strange that Uncle Al's show pulls up along side another, defunct show, and loads that equipment with his and Benzini Bros goes on its merry way.  And then at the end, Benzini Bros becomes the defunct show and another comes along side and loads the remains of Benzini Bros.  If you didn't know better you would think this is way shows would go out of business or be taken over by other shows.  I won't say this kind of thing didn't happen, but TWICE in the story?  Again, when a show folded, it was advertised in The Billboard as well as newpapers in the area it went defunct, and the buyers would come to buy the equipment, wagons, tents and exotic animals, etc.  Horses were not too difficult to sell as horse power was still a major factor on farms at that time.  There were dealers in used show equipment, William P. \Diamond Bill\ Hall of Lancaster, Missouri being one, who bought defunct shows' equipment and animals, and then turn around and sell that stuff to other showmen who would put out a new show with it.I wouldn't have bothered to write this but for the fact that reviews I read of Water for Elephants made a big to do about its historical research and so-called accurate portayal of the depression era railroad circus.  But it is a good read if you discount all the goofiness in it.  Just remember it is fiction and the writer has taken some real liberties with her work., overall|3|Negative
I listened to the unabridged audio CD version as I drove the last couple of weeks. I know that the book was (and is) a wildly popular bestseller, but I have to confess that the thought that kept nagging at me as I listened was why? I'm not saying this is a bad book. It is somewhat engaging. However, I didn't find any of the characters particularly vivid or humanly multi-dimensional. And as soon as Rosie the elephant was added to the circus, halfway through the book, I had a (correct) feeling as to where the plot line was moving, so no surprise ending. I have no idea whether circus life in the prohibition era was anything like this, so can't comment on the authenticity of the backdrop, but I found it pretty depressing. Altogether, a pretty so-so read., overall|3|Negative
The writing in this book is about boring and uncreative as it can get. I am not speaking about the story, which is OK, though nothing too special. But the writing style itself and the use of the English language by the author is about as dry and unimaginative as one can get.It's a fast read, and I kept waiting for the plot twist that would make the book a worthwhile read, but was left disappointed. Not a great read, but not horrible either, just very middle of the road and very forgettable. The author used to be a technical writer prior to writing this book and it shows., overall|3|Negative
Rooting for the underdog is easy to do today, especially when that underdog has been dealt crap in his supposed hand of cards that he brings to the poker game. So, when Sara Gruen attempts to bring us scenes from behind the scene of the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth through the creaks and crevices of Jacob Jankowski's memory, does she succeed in doing so? Are you ready for a circus stunt such as this? Well then, read on! ON TO THE BIG TOP MEAT AND POTATOES OF THIS EXTRAVAGANZA AS I DARINGLY ATTEMPT TO WRITE SUCH A REVIEW!!!Just so you know, I didn't think it was the latest and greatest masterpiece that everybody else did, but I didn't think it totally sucked either. Ok, you've been fairly warned, lest I rain on your precious parade, or enlighten it, whatever the case may be for the reader.To get things started, Jacob Jankowski is ninety. Hmmm...or maybe he's ninety three. Ok, ok, he's one or the other, OK?!!? But he's got a story to tell ya, and it ain't about Ringling. It is about one man who's left with nothing after his parents are killed, and he skips out on his vet finals. And that man hops a train, and walks into a hair-raising tale that only Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth can produce in a lifetime! And once he hops this train, he's nothing, but that changes rather quickly when certain authorities learn about his experience with animals, despite not taking his final exams.From there, Jacob is treated to a world of everybody and nobodies, and sometimes the big boys who might be jealous of their wives who married the wrong man. People are supposed to water at the mouth at the tasty treats a circus can only offer, and the men are more than likely to salivate at the \cooch tent,\ where flesh runs rampant for a certain price. He is shown how cruel a man can be, and learns that to get what he wants out of this Main Attraction, he has to fight, and fight dirty, just like the low-lifes who run this show. And of course, there is Rosie, the lone elephant in this show, who isn't always understood, except by Jacob and his hopeful honey, Marlena. The question is, is there any easy way out of this?Unfortunately, Sara Gruen makes it a little too easy in the end, and what seems to be complex, turns just a little too easy for my taste. And in the very end, the ending is not only perfect, but Hollywood couldn't have conjured it up any better than Gruen did. I'm not sure I appreciate such an effort. I respect it, yes. The writing is spectacular. I just wish there was more to it., overall|3|Negative
I give this book a 2.6.  All those people Jacob's father helped in that little town and no one came forward in his time of tragedy?  It just didn't seem realistic to me.  Someone from immigrant stock with the pluck and drive to get into Cornell vet school is not likely to founder in this situation, nor just dismissively to walk away from his final exams.  Jacob wasn't a pampered trust fund baby; he'd probaby had it a bit rough all along. The rest of the story is just a contrivance built upon an unbelievable premise., overall|3|Negative
Depressing.  Well written with so much detail I felt I was there at the circus.  Unfortunately, that's the problem.  It's set in the Depression.  The horrible way the animals and workers were treated was too much for me to really enjoy the book.  Very well written though, and I would read other books by this author., overall|3|Negative