This was the first ever book that i had read, when i first got my kindle. To put it simply it a good nice read. The story line is nice the characters are well developed and have strong qualities. Really theres nothing i could put in words what this book mad me feel. Thats what i look for in a good book. How the story makes me feel how the characters an i respond emotionally towards on an other. When i read i feel as i the story comes to life. And thats what i got out of this book the story came to life so freely and beautifully and th characters showed so muh emotian so much heart that what really made it special. So do yourself a favor and read this book 
Having heard mixed reviews on this book I wasn't sure  what to think, but I found it to be an easy, enjoyable read. I recommend this to anyone looking for an easy before bed book or an accompaniment to your summer travels. Great fun! 
It took me a bit to get into the book, but once I did... I could not put it down. The love story captivated me, and it is not really something you read about every day (the circus), which made it even more interesting.I would have given it 5 stars if I was more captivated when Jacob first joined the circus... even so, I definitely recommend this book! 
I found some of the \"old-timey\" phrases and circus lingo a bit difficult. I had to use the kindle dictionary as much as I could but most things weren't in there. I am still kind of confused about what \"red lighted\" really is. I need to Google that phrase. Anyway, beside the lingo I found a really interesting story. I never really think this about a book but I kind of wish this book were longer. I wanted to know more about the key relationship that the author creates. She really could do another book with material I think she left out, like what happens next.I recommend this book, especially if you are looking forward to the movie with Reese Witherspoon, Robert Pattinson, and Christopher Waltz. 
I picked up this book because of the high reviews it had received and was pleasantly surprised. I finished it in three days having a hard time putting it down when it was time to make dinner or go to bed. 
I understand some of the criticism, but does a book have to be a literary masterpiece to be immensely enjoyable?  The overwhelming positive reviews explain why not.It is well researched, but maybe the plot stretched a bit too far at times and low quality dialogues have taken away from the book's otherwise star quality.The depression era was well represented, gave a good realistic feel of the troubled times and the people.  Circus setting was pure genius, and made it so interesting.Overall, it is a very enjoyable book, very readable. 
the movie almost mirrors the book but somehow the novel paints a better picture.  this is not just a &#34;chick&#34; book. 
Book DescriptionAs a young man, Jacob Jankowski was tossed by Fate onto a rickety train that was home to the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth. It was the early part of the great Depression, and for Jacob, now ninety or ninety-three, the circus world he remembers was both his salvation and a living hell. A veterinary student just shy of a degree, he was put in charge of caring for the circus menagerie. It was there that he met Marlena, the beautiful equestrian star married to August, the charismatic but twisted animal trainer. And he met Rosie, an un-trainable elephant who was the great hope for this third-rate traveling show. The bond that grew among this unlikely trio was one of love and trust, and, ultimately, it was their only hope for survival.[...]This book came to us as a recommended read from several sources. Once selected, we could not possibly put it down. The author, Sara Gruen, builds the detailed and fantastic world of a travelling circus during the Great Depression from the ground up! The story of Jacob Jankowski is one of sorrow, love and at times terrifying. His constant emotional struggles can be related to by many readers (though perhaps not as fantastical) and will captivate the imagination. The other characters Gruen constructed are perhaps the most remarkable outside of young Jacob, as with any circus, they all act their parts accordingly ... with flawless precision.One does not need to be a circus aficionado or historical reader to take pleasure in this novel, for it contains a little of everything to captivate any bookworm. We guarantee you will not be able to put this one down! 
This is not really a particularly intellectual book, or the kind that will have you pondering but it will hold your interest and enthrall you; which makes it a perfect holiday read. It is not only a fantastic love story but is a seemingly accurate depiction of circus life during Great Depression (so you still get to learn things after all)and has enough plot to hold your interest but not so much as to seem over engineered. There is even a lesson about how we should treat old people.A good read 
its a great book and i enjoyed it as a little slow in some parts but other than that i really enjoyed it 
Jacob Jankowski is a student at Cornell University, studying veterinary medicine so that he can join his father's practice.Near the end of his senior year and before he sits for his final exams, he is called into the dean's office and told his parents have been killed in an automobile accident. When he returns home to bury them, he learns that his father is bankrupt and all he inherits is debts. After the funeral he returns to Cornell where his room and board have been paid up until the end of the year. He tries to sit for his final exams but ends up leaving without answering a single question. He walks away from the college and finally jumps aboard a railroad car and begins what will be an unusual life, a hard life, and exciting life with a circus.The story is told by Jacob when he is an old man living in a rest home. It is a depiction of life during the hard years of the Great Depression, the even harder life as a member of a traveling circus, and also provides a peek into the life of early rest homes.I found the book to be a little raw in spots but also exciting and entertaining because I remember the traveling circuses with the big top tents and the intriguing side shows which, as a child, I was never allowed to see. Alma Winters-Author of the newly released Once Upon a Time Tales. 
Over all I did enjoy the book. It was a little hard to get into at first but the characters are great. The book triggers several different emotions and the last few chapters are addicting. It was very well written and quite enjoyable. Would recommend for 16+. 
I really enjoyed this book.  I had seen the movie first, and had great expectations for the book.the only negative thing i have about it was the terrible editing it was like it was hurried onto the kindle, or the software had a bug in it - lots of the letter \"i\" missing from the middle of words, every time the word \"thanks\" was written it was missing the \"h\" (tanks).  also lots of 1/2 and 1/4 in the middle of sentences for nothing, and sometimes numbers replaced letters or vice versa.Apart from navigating through annoying roadbumps of typos, the actual story itself is quite touching.there is also a lot of differences from the movie, but i can see where and why those changes were made to get it on the big screen. 
It was suggested to me by a friend and available in the lenders library, I'm glad I took the time to read it (I did not see the movie). 
Love the details in this book and the emotions.  Could picture all the characters and their situations.  Liked the ending also. 
This book has been on my to-read list for quite some time and I finally got around to reading it. I would have to agree with the majority of the reivews in that it certainly was an excellent and entertaining story. I am especially looking forward to seeing the movie now that recently came out.I liked how the story flipped from present-day Jacob who was 93 years old in a nursing home to the story of young Jacob on the circus train. The first part of the story of the events leading to how Jacob comes to join the circus in the first place really get the story going and draw the reader's interest. There is a fair amount of sexual content within the story that surprised me a little but was in keeping with the progression of the story. I didn't particularly enjoy the portrayals of animal abuse that happened on the circus train, but these also helped in building the storyline of August and Rosie (the elephant).I was pleased by how the story wrapped up and am definitely interested in checking out some of the other books by this author. 
This story helped me in gaining a better understanding of what it is to be elderly.  The audio version is narrated by two men, both are meant to be the main character, one voice representing his twenties and the other is in his nineties.  It certainly isn't centered around being of an advanced age, but as a side story, it was still very clear.I was pleasantly surprised by my conflicted response to the story.  On the one hand, his lamentations over being at the end of his life made me sad; on the other hand, he was funny and his life was a full one, giving him many wonderful memories.My advice to a prospective listener or reader?  If you are bored with the first chapter, hang in there, it picks up and is worth getting to the end. 
Water for Elephants is a tough one for me to review. I loved the theme and the split realities of it. You are basically following Jacob Jankowski, the protagonist, through two of his life's biggest adventures. We are introduced to him at the circus and follow his story of how he becomes a vet for the Benzini Brother's traveling circus. We are also switching back into his current reality where he is re-living these days from the nursing home that he now resides in.There are good plot points throughout, and I did find myself wanting to get back to the book to see what happens next. At times, however, I found certain events did not play out in a way that was realistic to the story that was being built. Even though I was enjoying the story and the narrative - I found myself aware of the fact that there was an author behind it all, pulling the strings. Not being able to quite put my finger on why, I was often pulled out of believing the story, almost as if the author was showing too many fingerprints of the process of writing. For this reason - it was hard for me to get lost completely in the book itself.All of that aside, however, I still found it beautiful. There was a moment in particular when I felt incredibly sad for our main character - to the point where I had to put the book down and step away for a moment to collect myself. There is a wonderfully commentary woven throughout that allows the reader to ponder where one is at when you are looking back at your life in old age. I really enjoyed that thread.I had heard a lot of really good things about the book, and was going into it that way. Unfortunately, there was something missing for me when I completed it, almost as if I had skipped an important part. For that reason, I give it four stars. 
Water for Elephants is a wonderful read.  The story grabs your interest quick and keeps you moving along at a great pace.  I enjoyed the way the author transitioned between the older Jacob and the younger Jacob so seamlessly.  Wonderful writing style. 
Water for Elephants is first narrated by Jacob, a 90-93 year old living out his days in a nursing home. He begins to tell the story of his life including a 70 (or so) year old secret he's revealing to anyone for the first time. Jacob is a young man just short of taking his tests to become a Veterinarian until both his parents die, and his life seems to hold no direction. He accidently finds himself in the midst of circus train where he meets an unpredictable circus manager, August, his beautiful wife, Marlena, and later a difficult to train elephant, Rosie.The element that lights up this audio book is John Randolph Jones amazing narration as the tired and cantankerous older Jacob. His voice is heavy with age and experience. It would be difficult for any secondary narrator to compete but David LeDoux does a good job of holding his own. Though the setting is lively and obviously well researched, the love triangle is underdeveloped and the end of the book just sort of unravels. At turns mindless, salacious, and fun, Water for Elephants effectively captures a bygone time and offers some fascinating circus details most will enjoy. 
Well researched but brutal in some parts, this depicts circus life as, I hope, it used to be.  Possibly not for your grandmother and definitely not for the feint of heart, this book tells it like was. 
Chosen after reading an excerpt.  Good character descriptions. and scenes are beautifully depicted.  I felt involved in the story.  Bit of a surprise ending that leaves you wanting to stay with the main character a bit longer to see where he ends up. 
I found this book easy to read and entertaining. I really enjoyed the present / memory back and forth set up. 
The book its self was amazing let alone the characters. The characters, such as Jacob and Marlana, became a part of me, Walter and Camel too. I love this book and probably always will. 
This novel tells the story of a man who is now old and struggling with health problems. A carnival comes to town and he remembers the amazing life he once had. I loved the ending the most and hated when characters died. The story itself was believable and the characters complex. This book is not for children and can leave you quite depressed at certain points. Other than that [and that's more of an observation than a complaint] this is a solid read. If the characters didn't die this would've been a 5. 
This story grabs you with swirly plots and colorful characters who live an extraordinary life style in the circus. Water for Elephants is for anyone who has a drop of gypsy in their blood or even just wishes they could live out their dreams of adventure. 
I got this with my free trial month of prime....I really liked the book.  As usual the book is much better then the movie. 
First I must mention that I love books that take you to a time and place that you have no knowledge about and in this case it's circus life in the first half of the 1900's. It was fascinating to read what life was like in those days for those who worked in the circus, from performers to the labors. As for the book itself I did enjoy it, but I wouldn't call it a page turner and often in the first quarter of the book I thought about just putting the book down and starting something else a little more exciting to read. However the farther into the book I got the more I started to care about the characters the more invested in the book I became. In the end I was very glad I continued to read the book and now I can say I would recommend the book to friends. 
Really enjoyed this book, couldn't put it down.  Some parts a bit disturbing.. but good. 
The story line is simple, man meets girl, falls in love and must get past all obsticles in the way of their love BUT I loved the descriptions of all the characters, time and events. ie.traveling circus. I do not think the idea was so original.ie boy meets girl, ect. but the research that the author put into the circus idea was just great. I actually felt like I learned something about a life I would never had even thought to learn anything about. I would definatley look for more titles from this author because her research and time put into her characters and themes is fantastic. 
The perspective from a 90 or 93 year old (he can't remember which) man in a wheelchair in a nursing home, with flashbacks of his life on a circus train during the Depression all provided an interesting, thought-provoking story.  In addition, the conversation with the author and the study questions at the end of the book are a nice bonus. 
I was extremely happy with every aspect of this book until, in one of the final chapters, when Uncle Al tells Jacob that August is a paranoid schizophrenic, or as he puts it, a \"paragon schizophonic\".  After reading this, there seemed to me to be simply too many similarities with an older novel I read in 2006, William Styron's modern classic SOPHIE'S CHOICE.  A beautiful Catholic woman and a handsome Jewish man who fight a lot due to the man's schizophrenia, another younger man who is new to their 'group' who has feelings for the woman...sex...death...the only dfference seems to be the circus setting and the fact that in this, the woman DOESN'T die and ends up married to the new, younger man.  A nice book, but not extremely original, at least not in the romantic storyline. 
I thought this book was an interesting and quick read.  The story pretty much grabs you instantly and I finished the book within a couple days.  I'm always in the market for a good love story and this book was fast paced and interesting.  I haven't seen the movie yet, but I'm looking forward to it.  I love Reese Witherspoon.  I would recommend this book! 
When I downloaded this book, I honestly didn't expect much more than a nice way to pass some time.  I really underestimate this little gem.  Once I picked it up I found it hard to put down.  In fact, I stayed up past my bedtime to finish it, but it was worth the extra cup of coffee I had to have the next morning.Without going into any details about the story itself (there's more than enough other reveiws to do that), I'll start by saying I was almost immediately endeared with the main charachters, which is a testament to the writing abilities of the author.  I laughed and cried with the characters, and was genuinely sad to see some of them go.While the ending was more than a little predictable, it was still a good read. 
Water for Elephants has it all- adventure, drama, romance, history, and the circus! What more can you ask? Seriously, read this book. 
Thoroughly entertaining. I really enjoyed this book, from beginning to end. From the first chapter I loved how the author transitioned from present day and back. I learned about traveling circuses and now I want to know even more! 
This was a tremendously fun and interesting read... not to mention educational too. The whole travelling circus/sideshow thing has always fascinated me, so it was interesting to find a novel with that as it's backdrop. The characters felt very real and I found myself reading far past my bedtime because I wanted to see what was going to happen next.The only dissapointing part of the book to me was at the very end. I can see how some people like things to be tied up in a nice little bow, but to me it was so implausable that it almost ruined the whole reading experience. 
Definitely a good read, I got through it in a weekend, but I wouldn't read it again (glad I read it once though).  To be fair, a book has to be REALLY good to get a 5 from me. 
This is a book that you can read again and again and its like meeting old friends. The plot lines are well woven, the characters are easily invested in and the ending satisfying. 
The story was thoughtful and well-written.  The present-day Jacob was actually more compelling and believable than the Jacob of the main, remembered story.If you liked the circus world information, and have a high tolerance for some graphic content, read Gary Jennings' \"Spangle\" (which has been split into three separate books for paper back), a rich, detailed story of a circus in post-Civil War America and Europe.Spangle 
I saw all the great reviews so I gave Water for Elephants a try.I really enjoyed this book.  Masterful story line and clever characters.It was a fast read.  I can hardly wait to see the movie! 
This book is a good read. Long chapters but puts you right in the circus with Jacob and Marlena and Rosie. 
Ninety-three year old Jacob Jankowski, now living in a nursing home, reminisces about the summer of 1931 which he spent with the Benzini Brothers circus.  The inner workings, relationships, conflicts of circus life are so well described in this novel with such interesting detail, you really feel like you are there.  Following the events of Jacob's life made me laugh and cry.  I really loved this book and am looking forward to seeing the soon-to-be-released movie. 
I would give it a 3 star up till the last 3 or 4 chapters. It ends good and that's why I gave it 4 stars. I like a book that you cant put down. But I didn't get that with this book! But it's cute 
As a child in Memphis, Tn., the  most exciting time in my childhood life was when the days the circus came to town. My father loaded me, my two brothers and my sister into the car and off we went to the Clyde Beatty circus under the big top. Water for Elephants brought these memories back as though they were yesterday. I read the book over a 3 day period and really enjoyed it. It's a terrific story that I would recommend to all my friends. 
I enjoyed this book a lot, despite the fact that some of the stuff said doesn't match the era in which it was written. I wasn't as bothered by the small issues as some of the other reviewers were, apparently. It is a work of fiction after all. Sure, there were quite a few cliches, but not to the point of distraction. I liked the animals and their personalities, namely Rosie, the star of the show. She stole my heart and when she was a victim of violence, my heart broke for her.Having the old man relive his memories of the circus was very compelling and tied the story of then and now together nicely. The ending made me cry, but not why you'd expect. 
With all the \"hype\" about this book, I was expecting more-more plot,and a more interesting main character. And really it reads like a script. So often the author does too much explaining about how each character is sitting, their reaction,etc. as if in preparation for a movie,with too much explaining how the actors should perform.I do like the depression era and the circus theme , which drew me to the book.I am looking forward to seeing the movie but mostly because of the actors in it.All in all I didnt care for the authors way of writing. But I think it will make for an interesting movie. 
I loved this book and didn't expect to because I've never been a fan of the circus. The novel seamlessly alternates between two periods of Jacob's life, beginning when he was in his early 20s, having lost everything after the death of his parents (the impetus for his joining the circus) and as an elderly man in a nursing home.I was especially moved by the author's clear respect for older people through her portrayal of Jacob and the other residents of the nursing home. The conversations between Rosemary and Jacob were deeply touching and I loved the way Rosemary gently explained to Jacob why the man might have lied about carrying water for elephants at the circus. Oh, and the ending was just beautiful. I was rooting for Jacob all the way!I was also fascinated by some of the historical bits such as redlighting and Jake Leg, a disease some people got (usually poor people) from drinking Jamaican Ginger Extract during the Prohibition Era. And I can't forget Rosie, the amazing elephant and where she spent her final years - This was a book I could not put down!  I guess the only 
Good book.  I didn't care how accurate the information was.  I found it hard to put it down. 
The setting and writing of this novel give it a wonderful atmosphere. The only thing holding it back is the romance, not that I did not root for the conclusion, but would have enjoyed more of a reason for the couple to be together besides circumstance. That being said, the characters are well built and the world the inhabit fascinating. 
I thoroughly enjoyed this book, a perfect summer read.  The ending was a heart jerker but made you feel good.  I say you should like the circus, but you may just learn to through this book.  I'm old enough to remember the traveling circus coming to our small town, and I fear that is going to be a thing of the past----too bad. 
An enjoyable read.  The background of the circus did not deflect from relating to the clients. Seeing the past through the eyes of the 93 year old protagonist was wonderful. 
this author is a master story teller and she had me from the first.  The structure of the book is captivating, back and forth from the nursing home where the main character lives out his old age to the fascinating life he has led as a veternarian for the circus and his love affair with the main act.  and that is only the beginning.  It is the story of coming of age in a most unconventional setting.  I learned so much about the inner workings of a circus.  So why oh why did the author end the book on such a maudlin, unrealistic note.  Sarah Gruen forced a happy ending on a story that deserved a more intelligent finale.  Still it is deffinately worth the read. 
I really loved this story, especially the ending.  I really enjoyed hearing about circus life, which surprised me, I'm not a fan of the circus at all.  I thought Sara Gruen did a great job telling this story but I would have like to have seen a little more character development.  It also had a little extra appeal for me as the story starts out in Ithaca, NY not far from where I grew up and not far from where I live now. 
I purchased this book on someone else's recommendation. It was not at all what I thought it would be, but I did enjoy it and passed it on to someone else. The book is better than the movie. 
I started reading Water for elephants after watching the movie trailer. I loved it and after going to the cinema I have to say that the novel is really really better. There are more elements than the love story the movie tells. The historical period is described well, the characters are more interesting and Jacob's everyday life is one of the best descriptions of what an old man thinks and feels when he is far from his family.It's an amazing book and even if you're not an english native speaker (as I am) it's an easy read 
This is a good book, and better than the movie (as is often the case). I did really enjoy it. 
I can definitely see why this book gets five stars from a lot of readers -it has fascinating period detail, an involving (if fantastical) romance, and plenty of action.So to explain my only-four stars, I must confess I \"read\" the audiobook version - and I was of two minds about it.  Yes, the details about circus life were interesting, and the romance was gripping in a kind of 1930s way.  But there were a lot of things that didn't make sense to me (circuses are going broke right and left, but the star performers appear rich, wearing tuxedos and drinking champagne), and for my money the bad guys were too bad and the good guys too entirely good.  The minor characters (the little person, the hootch dancer, etc.) were more complete than the leads.It would make a heckuva film though - drama, chase scenes on the top of train cars, etc.I also confess that the audio version  may have added to my bad humor - there was one fellow playing the older narrator who was really superb, but the fellow reading the part of the young hero was whiny in the extreme (what did she see in him?. 
This is a well-written, cute story.  I certainly achieved the `suspension of disbelief' that one looks for in a summer novel.  I empathized with the main character, and could picture him and the others.  I feel like I know Jacob Jankowski - both the younger version in shock from losing his parents, and the older version who hates being treated like an \"invalid\".  Unlike some reviewers, I am not old enough to remember the circus coming to town on the train and with a parade.  In fact, the circus experience from my childhood was in a large concert venue.  Nevertheless, Gruen allows me to imagine the big top in all of its grimy glory and picture all of the alcohol loving workers and performers smuggling their drinks on the train.  What a nice escape. 
I won't elaborate on the plot as others have taken care of that. Listening to this story is tremendous, as it easily allows for the two voices of Jacob Jenkowski to be clearly heard and distinguished from one another. This book is a love story, a history lesson, a peek into different elements of humanity that have way too much realism. There were times I wanted to skip ahead because I didn't want to hear the unpleasantness taking place in the story. But of course I didn't. Because one has to endure some bad to appreciate the good. The love story is much more too, than a man and a woman - it involves the circus animals and how they instinctively know who is good and who is not. The history lesson reminds us of a lifetime ago, which really isn't so very far away - less than one hundred years, and helps us appreciate how far we have come. The peek into a reality far removed from a life I live reminds me not to take any part of my current life for granted. This is a very rich novel and one that will stick with the reader long after the last page is turned. 
I am going to be a bad person right now and say that I do not understand the big hype for this book. I liked it, it was interesting, and I think that carnivals during the Depression are a popular theme in some recent entertainment (Carnivale, The Night Circus), and I can see why.  This book is entertaining but it is not particularly deep or special.  I listened to some of it on audio and that absolutely added to the story. 
This was an excellent book, and revealed the helplessness of people during the depression years when there were no jobs and they had to accept terrible working conditions and cruel employers. 
Jacob Jankowski is about to take his final veterinary exams at Cornell University when his parents are killed in a road accident. He then discovers that his father has been working as a vet, free of charge, during these early depression years, leaving Jacob penniless and unable to afford to stay at school to finish his exams. He hops a circus train which is going through the town and is hired as the show's vet, virtually unpaid by the avaricious circus owner, and sleeping in a train carriage with horses and the circus \"little person\". The cast of circus characters, both performers and roustabouts, as the workers are called, provides an interesting back drop to a story of love, manic hatred and cruelty, especially on the part of one of the trainers who has charge of an elephant named Rosie. The story progresses right through Jacob's life until his nineties when, with his frail body but intact memory, he relives his colourful past. It's an entertaining read and the story, the details of which have been thoroughly authenticated by the author, makes a change from anything I've read previously. 
Gruen not only tells a good story about the early circus trains, but she also uses her research to add credibility.  Her sophisticated style and vocabulary make for pleasurable reading. 
I don't know why, but when I read a little \"blip\" somewhere about this book, something told me I would really enjoy it. I mostly read psychological thrillers and this book was so different from anything I have ever read, but I felt as if I was actually transported to the time and place of this unusual, interesting read. My 90 year old Mom read it, too, and also loved it.  It's warm, endearing and so well written. 
\"Water for Elephants\" is a good read.  The writer confesses to being thrilled to be writing something besides technical documents, and this gives rise to minor annoyances, some as trivial as the overuse of \"stare\".The contrast of mores of the Depression Era to modern day is arrestingly authentic.  Using 1930's circus lingo is misleading (a \"bull\" elephant named Rosie).The symbolism that is not overtly contrived (the big circus in the sky) is captivating, but there is an the almost desperate struggle to parallel the narrator with the biblical story of Jacob. 
I had a hard time putting this book down, not because it was action packed or particularly fast paced, but because the development, sincerity and engaging voice of the main character at both stages of his life was refreshingly flawless. The voice remains true and believable throughout the entire narrative and is well developed giving me a clear picture of who Jacob Jankowski is and why I should care. Because this is achieved, I am fully invested in his world and experiences. Like wise, the supporting characters are dynamic and interesting, but even given their deformities, whether physical or psychologically, they never over shadow the main character.The book provokes thoughts on treatment and intelligence of animals, economy, marriage, class, race, healthcare, friendship and family. As well as, it forces us to take a hard look at how our culture deals with the elderly.\"Sometimes the monotony of bingo and sing-alongs and ancient dusty people parked in the hallway in wheelchairs makes me long for death. Particularly when I remember that I'm one of the ancient dusty people, filed away like some worthless tchotchke.\"If I had to give a 'con' to the book, it would be toward the ending when the author simplifies Jacob's journey with a 'run away with the circus' solution. However, this does not disappoint and in a way is the logical path and most appropriate ending given the character's circumstances and alternative. It is the happiest it can get. 
This was a fun book that was easy to read and follow. The author brought the reader to the circus! The main character suffered a tragedy that he literally was running a way from when he found himself eventually working in a circus.  As the reader, you then go through the journey of his life in the circus as a young man, where he experiences life, love, and tragedy. I appreciate the ending of the book, and thought it was a nice ending to his life journey. 
I read the book. I could not watch the movie. The book was so good if you could stand the feelings of the circus and what it was doing to him and the love he felt for her. 
I just loved this book.  The author certainly did her homework on this one.  Don't be turned off by the circus because the story is so much more than that.  The characters are endearing and the story wonderful to read 
Wow!  There are over 1,600 reviews for this book.  That's great because this is a book that should be read and will be enjoyed by many.This novel is about a young man, nearly finished with his veterinary studies who, because of economic circumstances leaves school to join a circus as its resident veterinarian.This book switches back and forth from the standpoint of the veterinarian in his older years to the present time.  As an old man, he looks back at his experiences and the crises in the life of his great love, Dolly.  Dolly loves horses and elephants and is in a relationship with an abusive man who is in charge of the circus.The protagonist's relationship with his roommate, a dwarf, and the dwarf's Jack Russell Terrier, are wonderfully characterized.I enjoyed this book quite a bit and recommend it highly. 
It was a good read. I read it on a flight and could hardly put it down.  I liked the ending. 
Well written story of circus life, the people and circumstances that brought the traveling big top to our lives. You can almost smell the sawdust, the action, the intensity of the people who made this such a happening in the small cities of 20th century America. 
&#8203;This #1 NY Times Bestseller, Water for Elephants (&#8220;WFL&#8221;) was released as a film with Reese Witherspoon in 2011, and it offers us a timeless revelation of something that most of us could never fathom, the bygone era of traveling circus life, with grippingly real characters, at an astonishing depth from an author who is too young to know such vernacular much less in depth, and all the wretched animal smells, the poverty of that life, it's inherent tragedies, sprinkled with humor, intrigue and life&#8217;s intensity.  All of this is given to us from the senescent eyes of one \"90 or 93\ and it leaps through his semi-dementia-blurred eyes to his eyes as they were decades past -- the animated, vibrant mind of a large, strong and most admirable, but real, young man, Jacob/Jake Jankowski, a vetenarian, trained at Cornell University among America&#8217;s elite privileged classes, who fell into the depths of the morass of the Americana that one would expect circus-life to reflect.&#8203;Her novel is a much-heralded classic, as modern literature might define it, even if its prose are not of classical stature; the story that she weaves is captivating indeed.  She presents this historical-fiction view of circus life primarily as dialogue, very believable at that and so worth the time to read it, but it wants for more descriptive passages and philosophy to feed our starved minds.  Still, when she is of a mind to do so, she writes memorable lines, thus sprinkling her fascinating plot with tasteful, descriptive metaphors and similes which never impede the flow of the story line nor irritate the spellbound reader.  The plot drifts dreamlike between the disquieting realities of old age and its debilitating manifestations and the all-too vivid memories of circus life and the tragic and wonderful characters and griping events that then unfold.&#8203;Clearly, she has studied seniors and their halting routines in assisted living facilities, and she makes them all too real.  With this, I have two problems.  First, seniors' lives are boring and, worse, awash in sadness.  Second, for one of my age, they strike frighteningly close to home, increasing the appeal of some later self-extinction, a far preferable denouement than the gradual withering and atrophy that time assures.  As such, I rapidly flipped through the chapters dwelling on Jacob's painful, senescent existence.  On balance, I horoughly enjoyed learning so much about circus life in America some 100 years ago and all of the characters and plots of WFL.  Brava, Sara Guen.  Ms. Guen is a Canadian, who now resides in America with her husband and sons.  Yes, it IS worth your time.  4 Stars  BookAWeekMan [...] 
Water for Elephants is an entertaining read that chronicles the life of Jacob, a circus' veterinarian (well, would have been if he would have taken his final exams). The story is told in alternating time periods, Jacob recounting his youth from the confines of an assisted living facility. After the horrific death of his parents during the Great Depression, Jacob drops out of school and begins working with the Benzini Brothers circus. He quickly discovers the dark secrets so well-hidden behind the cheerful, humorous faade of circus shows. While on the road Jacob grows up and learns a great deal about life \"out in the real world\" while traveling with the circus, including lessons on friendship, trust, love and self-reliance.This novel is extremely plot driven and is not a literary challenge by any means. I appreciate the take on circus life; this isn't something that is commonly written about. It was still very enjoyable and interesting, and I would recommend it for all readers. 
I was pleasantly surprised by this story.  Granted, it had wonderful reviews here on Amazon, but there have been other popular fiction novels with the same reviews, and I loathed those books.I don't need to go into any details as the book has been so thoroughly reviewed, but I will say there was so much in the book that touched me.  Ninety or ninety-three year old Jacob's story was so emotional...it's going to stay with me for quite awhile.  Bravo! 
Water for Elephants is the first adult novel I've read and it certainly didn't disappoint.The story starts off with ninety-three year old Jacob Jankowski recounting his life as a young man training at Cornell to be a veterinarian. He drops everything when his parents die and joins the circus.Jacob was a very easily liked character. I'd have to say the flash forwards were something I really enjoyed. Gruen's seamless writing between past and present is breathtaking. Reading the difference between an older Jacob as opposed to a young one was really intriguing. It was interesting to hear him describe how his body has aged from the vital, handsome young man he once was and how he sees himself as this decrepit old man now. It was so sad but quite hysterical at the same time.I didn't feel like I connected with Marlena too much. Yes, I liked her as a character, but I had a hard time seeing what Jacob thought was so special about her. A character I had a hard time deciding whether or not I liked, from the moment he was introduced, was August. In the beginning you want to like him when he's befriending Jacob, but when he starts slipping up and showing that he is really a very cruel man you immediately switch to despising him.Now Rosie... what can I say about Rosie? She is the cutest elephant ever! I love how Gruen wrote her with such a loveable personality. Well, really how she wrote most of the animals with such great characteristics. Bobo the monkey was also super adorable. Needless to say, something that I had a hard time with while reading this was the animal cruelty. A while back, I read an article from PETA on how elephants - most circus animals, really - are treated and it was just awful. So it was really hard reading it in gruesome detail. But hopefully, it'll make people realize how circus animals are treated so they can make a stand against it.Overall, Gruen has created a beautifully written novel. Her vivid descriptions and accurate portrayal of life in the circus during the Depression were captivating. Not once did I feel that the story dragged on and the ending left me satisfied. I also felt that the pictures of the circus at the beginning of the chapters were a nice touch.I can't wait to see if I love the movie as much as I loved the book. Rob better not disappoint! ;) 
I knew from the very first chapter that I was going to be swept away by this one. In fact, it was hard to put it down, especially the last hundred pages or so. I stayed up well past my bedtime last night to finish; I just couldn't go to sleep until I knew how everything was going to work out. The characters really touched me. I was rooting for them throughout... Definitely recommend picking this one up! A total treat! 
I read this books years ago when it came out and thought it was good, but not great.  I reread it as a book club selection and liked it much better due to the depth of characters.  The author has done her research in the life of the circus performers.  I hated the cruelty shown to some of the animals, but I know some of those things took place.  True love wins with the risks people are willing to take to be with their \"soul mate\".  The end is pretty unbelievable with an old man running away to join the circus (again).  However, it made me hopeful that this ignored man would find happiness in his last years. 
Water for elephants is a good read. It captures the reader's imagination and I found myself really caring about the characters. The author has smoothly incorporated detailed information about the workings of the circus society, creating a bird's eye view of a unique community. 
The book offered a glimpse into a past lifestyle and I found it interesting.  Perhaps a little silly and could have included more history but all in all I enjoyed it. 
This is such a nice book.  I truely recommend it. You can't put it down after you start reading. 
I enjoyed this book very much.  Full of detail and things I would have never suspected or imagined about a circus.  I must admit that I had some trouble with the scenes of animal (and even people) abuse but was able to skim quickly over it enough to get the picture but not dwell on it.  I know that this part of the book had to be told because I'm sure that it happened.  I did enjoy the animals (and people) revenge at the end greatly!  I especially loved the weaving of Jacob's story from old man to young and back again.  And of course the happy ending...well who could have asked for a better one.  Yep!  I loved this book. 
This is an excellent, well researched book.  The author obviously has a lot of empathy with the animals.  Descriptions of life on the circus train seemed genuine.  The ending that involved the elephant was a real surprise.  One criticisim I have is that all of Sara Gruen's books have happy endings.  I guess I'm just a Jude The Obscure kind of guy. 
\"I am ninety. Or ninety-three. One or the other.\" So begins Sara Gruen's near love letter to the circus, and it's inhabitants. Told in flashbacks by the eldery Jacob Jankowski, it's how he came to work as the vet for the Benzini Brothers, a second rate Barnum and Bailey, traveling across the country. A cast of ragtag characters bring the bigtop to life including a little person named Walter, the sadistic ring master August, and his beautiful performer wife Marlena who Jacob desperately longs for.This would make a fanatastic movie if it isn't already in progress. It has all the elements, from melancholy sentiment, to sweeping romance, and the allure of the magical world of the three rings. 
This book was just what I expected. Just as I thought it would be, amazing!! This author never disappoints!! I'm actually glad I read the book first before I seen the movie. The book is so descriptive, rich, and told the story perfectly. I am also extremely happy that I found this little gem of a book to read1929 (Book One)I just couldn't put it down, took me far far an away. absolutely loved it. 
In the great depression, a young man drops out of Veterinary school and joins a travelling circus. The story unfolds in flashbacks from his present day existence in a nursing home. The author takes us into a world of cruelty, privation and danger, which is nevertheless full of adventure and the possibility of love. The story grabs you quickly. I couldn't put this one down. I told my friends about it, and the ones who actually started it were hooked too!The writer creates believable characters, and I found myself caring about them. Perhaps some were larger than life, but it helped the story. Was the circus really this grim and dangerous in the 1930's? I do not know, but Sara Gruen makes it entirely believable.This book occupied all of my spare time for several days, and that is just what I hope for when I pick up a new one. The ending was a little bit contrived, but I have forgiven authors for much worse. Get your hands on this one; you won't be sorry. 
It took me a long time to get into this book.  It is a little pornographic in parts.  But it ended up being good.  I loved the ending.  I can't wait until the movie comes out! 
Water for Elephants is loaded with interesting words because Sara Gruen owns a commanding vocabulary, and utilizes her well-chosen words with precision.  She also understands how to set the hook and carefully reel her reader in.  She's a master angler.The story is entertaining and the setting--a train circus-- is interesting.  Obviously Gruen heavy research is what birthed the rich detail.While some call this a romance book, the romance is lacking and rushed.  This is more of an action-adventure \"who done it.\" 
A fun read!  I learned a lot about the circus.  Sara Gruen did an excellent job of depicting the circus experience in the early 20th century. 
This is one of those books you don't want to put down. A great read. I wish I could say from start to finish, but I found the ending to be very weak and not in character with the rest of the book. Even so, I would highly recommend this book. 
I just spent the last fifteen minutes looking at the reviews ~~ and it's very interesting to read all the comments as well. There are so many varied responses to this book that the author must be in heaven to get so many responses to this book.I first heard of this book last spring when a fellow Amazon reviewer told me that I \"just had to read it.\" I wasn't that inclined since the price was not favorable and the waiting list at the library was too long. However, in my book club, it was the November book to discuss. So when I saw it on the table at the local bookstore for buy three, get one free, I snapped it up. It is not a decision that I have regretted. It is one of the better entertaining books of fiction that I have read this year, if not one of the best. And I read a lot.There are some disaparities in this book as with others, but I think people tend to forget that a work of fiction is simply that, a work of fiction. Not everything's going to \"mesh together\" as in real life. That's why you read nonfiction if you like everything in its proper place and order. This book is simply a fanastic tale of a man facing the end of his life in a dreary nursing home setting, and reliving some of the best moments of his life. A young orphan who happened to jump the train to get away from the tragedy that was his life happened to be on a circus train. He didn't plan to run away to the circus, he just stumbled on the circus train while grieving. And stayed. Fell in love with the most beautiful girl in the world who is happened to be married to the ringmaster. What a story!This novel alternates between Jacob's present and past ~~ he relives the first three months of being in Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth. Jacob is 90 or 93 (he can't remember which) and seventy years prior, he was the Benzini Brothers' vet, taking care of the underfed animals of that show. He worked with all kinds of people and animals. It was an exciting life ~~ how many people do you know that lived a life like that? Marlena is the wife of the psychotic ringmaster who alternately abused his wife, his animals and co-workers. Rosie is the elephant bull that Uncle Al, the owner of the circus, bought for a song, hoping that Rosie will be the biggest draw to his circus.The descriptions in this novel are lavish. One can see the sawdust in the air as the big top was put up. One can see the cotton candy being spun. One can feel the humiliation of an old man having to take a shower under the watchful eye of the nurse in the nursing home. One can feel his love for the beautiful show girl. And all of this is tied together beautifully, both past and present. It is a glimpse into a life of a man.Why didn't I give it a five star? Simply because I felt that the endings to both stories were rushed. I did not expect it to have such happy endings since the stories were more gritty and realistic. But hey, this is a work of fiction, right?11-4-07 
We find ourselves in the beginning at a nursing home with the elderly Jacob Jankowski's.  When the circus comes to town We begin to find out that Jacobs memory is still there and he takes you back to an era in the Great Depression.As a young man Jacob's life gets upended and he finds himself on a circus train.  They realize that Jacob with his training to become a vet will be of some use to the circus.  He falls victim to the ups and downs of life on the circus train and the beauty of the main act Marlena.  And falls in love with the larger than life Rosie, the Elephant.  Everything and everyone is subjected to the mercy of the cruel circus boss and Marlena's husband.This story is really engaging.  I personally found myself laughing at the antics of the circus family, cringing at the reality of the cruel act of red lighting.  And furious when the circus bosses cruelty reached horrifyingly to everyone and everything. 
I just finished reading Water for Elephants and thought this book was pretty good.  I really could not put the book down!  I had to force myself to close the book because If I wanted to, I could finish it in a day.  I choose to read this book since it had such high ratings.  I'm glad I picked it up. 
I really enjoyed this since it is a topic you don't really read about too often,However, the last page sort of ruins it.  I mean COME ON.  It's just not plausible within the confines of the narrative. 
I purchased this book reluctantly, since it didn't sound like my \"cup of tea\".  I mainly wanted to read it before I saw the movie, which is the order I like to do this, especially when I can see the movie and then refer back to the book to refresh my memory.  But in spite of myself, I enjoyed the book very much, and read it into the late hours last night(and early morning) because I didn't want to go to sleep until I finished it!I like the way the author goes back and forth in time; it is well done and easy to follow - sometimes this device can get confusing if not properly handled!  I'm not much of a circus person; of course I went when I was a child, then again with children and grandchildren, but I had a fear of animals that has been only partially conquered thanks to my grandson's love of them.  I have always stood in the back of crowds at Mardi Gras parades due to my major fear of horses!  But this book to me was enough about the human side as to make the circus details palatable, even interesting.I especially enjoyed the story line at the \"retirement community\" since I have a good friend who works at one, and I used to advertise for the place when I had a radio talk show called \"Life Begins at 50\".  Needless to say, I am a senior myself and without giving away too much information, I felt that the scenes there were very real.  I would highly recommend this book, especially to seniors and their families - not only for the enjoyment, but for the relationship insights therein. 
This book reminded me of the movie, &#34;Benjamin Button&#34;.  The format of an old man looking back at his life was reminiscent of the regretful and poignant tone in the movie.The story is told by Jacob, half about his life now as a 90-year old man, forgotten by his family in a nursing home.  The other half is about Jacob's life as a young man in the circus.  Jacob runs off to join the circus, literally, when he is just about to graduate from college.  Devastated by the loss of his family and fortune, he turns to the only thing he knows and loves--the one connection he has to his veterinarian father--the animals.  Jacob gets a job 'watering the elephants', and one grouchy elephant in particular, as he works as the circus animal veterinarian.  Jacob also has the really dumb luck of falling for Marlena, a trick horse rider.  Marlena just happens to be married to the circus boss, a sadistic man who beats her and the elephants.  The whole situation is a powder keg waiting to explode.Interspersed with this is the story of present-day Jacob and his longing, so tender and sad, that pulls on the heartstrings.  It is a sweet, tragic romance.I loved the parts that explained how the traveling carnivals worked.  It was so fascinating knowing that many incidents were based on real, actual events.  A heavy book with lots of good ingredients that will leave you satisfied. 
Enjoyable reading.  I never really knew much about the circus, and this was an inside glance probably set in truth. 
No, I won't forget WATER FOR ELEPHANTS any time soon. The prologue is one of the best I've read in a long time. I actually called a friend and ready it to her out loud. The characters, in particular, Rosie the elephant and Jacob are accurate and tender, each in their own sometimes sad and poignant way. This book is a summer hit for a reason--it's an enjoyable read filled with the peculiarities of circus life that intrigue and woo all who are drawn to such a menagerie known as the \"Greatest Show on Earth.\" ~Carol D. O'Dell 
Even though I do not patronize circuses & didn't want to read about one, this was certainly interesting, steeping the reader in the Depression times and all that it implied & actually doing exactly what the author intended, hissing the bad guy & loving the couple who surmount all odds & win in the end. 
I liked the way this novel was written, some in the present, and then in the past.  Satisfying ending. 
Water for Elephants is a fun read. It's not a profound work, but as entertainment, it works well. I really admire the detail and characterization. My favorite character? The elephant. 
I loved this book. I loved the circus atmosphere and the story. It was exceptionally well-written, and I enjoyed every page.We have a vet student joining a circus, with mistreated animals he's frantically trying to save and protect. We have a lovable elephant. The narrator is an old man looking back, and he recounts his tale in the immediacy of present tense as he describes situations that happened decades earlier. Interesting, and very effective choice, to write in present tense throughout.The ONLY thing that keeps me from giving the book five stars was the lack of character development for Marlena. Throughout the story I understood the protagonist loved her, but she seemed to be the woman tied to the railroad tracks throughout - Nell being constantly tormented by Snidely Whiplash - and I never really got a sense of her as a person. Maybe I missed it (not surprising - I read the book in daily spurts while I walked a treadmill), but I didn't even know how old she was. I got a much clearer picture of minor characters, like Rosemary, Kinko and Camel, than I ever did of her.I also never understood the whole \"water for elephants\" thing that the protagonist railed about in the beginning of the book. Perhaps it was something else I missed.Nevertheless, I loved the book, I loved the ending, and I know I'll go back to read it again. 
As I've started to branch out to reading a different type of book, Water for Elephants caught my eye, so I had to pick it up. I am so glad that I did! The setting was so raw and gritty and having it based on the history of circuses made it that much more fascinating. Sara Gruen was able to describe things so that I could easily picture the settings and all the circus workers. I just hope that the movie lives up to the book! 
I loved the first 90% of this book.  Whenever I opened it to read, I fell right into circus life in the 1930s, as told by the 93-year-old main character looking back on his life of 70 years previous.  My complaint is that the ending seemed rushed and contrived.  There were lose ends that didn't make sense.  For all of the reality of the first part of the book, the end seemed too fantastic.  Did the editor say \"Wrap it up all ready!\"?  I think this would make a TERRIFIC movie--just wait for the rights to be sold.  A good summer read, too. 
I don't care what the reviews say, I thought Water for Elephants was a great read and I thoroughly enjoyed it. I thought Jacob's stories, both in the past and in the present, were extremely well written. I found his innocence and charm as a young man quite enchanting. Wouldn't it be grand if all young men were as courteous and as sweet as the young Jacob Jankowski? I also really liked the crotchety 90-year old Jacob, whose temper tantrums and emotional outbursts were most certainly justified. The loss of independence is something that we all fear, even more so when a person has lived a long and full life only to be left alone in a senior's home to die.I also thought Marlena's character was well-written. Divorce in the 1920s and 1930s was unheard of, and I can only imagine how awful it must have been for a woman to realize that she had to endure the rest of her life with someone she despised. I found myself wondering when she was going to make the decision to live for herself, rather than do what everyone expected her to do. Then again, she had already made that decision once by leaving her family, so I expected that she would come to the right decision at some point.As for Gruen's research into circus life during the Depression, I think that she did a fantastic job. America during the Great Depression is such a fascinating piece of history, and when you add the excitement of an all-American circus show to the mix, it becomes ever more so. All in all, Water for Elephants was a great read and I will be sure to recommend it to my family and friends. 
What a delightful book!  I learned so much about the circus and its workings, truly a treasure. In between all the \"depressing issues\" there were moments of true goodness and hope. I've recommended it to all my reading friends. 
I wasn't sure about this book when I chose it but it turned out to be a wonderful read!  I enjoyed reading about the circus secrets (both pleasant and ugly) and the drama in the love story was completely plausible, and the old Jacob was delightful.  As a person who lives 30 minutes away from the PT Barnum Museum in Bridgeport Connecticut and has visited it often, I just could picture all of this and I loved it. 
Good book,  caught my attention right away with all the details about circus life.  I really enjoyed reading it.  My only qualm is with the ending because it's a little too pat for my taste.  Life doesn't ever end up so nice. 
This book surprised me.  I usually don't read the summaries on the book jackets because I find that it spoils the story for me and so I didn't really know what to expect from this book.  However, by the end of the book, I was thoroughly fulfilled.  I loved the author's insight into seeing things from the perspective of the \"90 or 93 yo\" main character.  I found I couldn't put the book down once started.  I also liked the Q&A commentary at the back of the book telling how the author researched circus life - especially the story about Rosie - to include in the novel.  Great storytelling! 
I could not help but notice that reading Sarah Gruen's Water For Elephants is very much like watching the movie \"Titanic.\"  First and foremost, each offers big historic pageantry, with a rousing \"you are there\" quality.  Each features two parallel narratives from the same protagonist, one in advanced age, one in a defining passage in young adulthood.  Both feature a romantic triangle involving a young woman who is a victim of her times stuck in a marriage or engagement to a cruel powerful man and the young man of no means who becomes her soulmate and savior.  Both send the young man to a fancy dress dinner in a borrowed tux. Both create insular worlds that are set apart from the rest of the earth, one by an ocean, the other by the train-bound peripatetic exotica of circus life, and within that insular world there is a class structure inspiring social commentary.  Both the Titanic creators and Gruen took admirable artistic risks in going to material that nobody else was treating and both did their homework on historical detail.Water For Elephants is about circus life in the early years of the Great Depression.  It successfully captures glimpses of the American experience and opens up the closed world of the circus that is at once a very dangerous place and a warm sanctuary.  Gruen does not spare the gritty reality of disregard for human and animal life.  She succeeds in creating a very delicately balanced community that can slide into disaster if shoved off balance.  Thinking on the living conditions she portrays, sometimes you have to ask, why would anyone stick with this mess?  For the narrator, Jacob Jankowski, it is love for animals, friends and the aforementioned girl.Water For Elephants is, like the Titanic, a large scale entertainment but when it comes down to it, there is no one line or character that is surprising (except perhaps for the elephant).  The book is well crafted but not artistic.  It may have been very different in the hands of John Steinbeck or EL Doctorow.  That said, Gruen gets points for following through on her inspiration and delivering a book that is very atmospheric and historically interesting, with some social commentary mixed in.This edition comes with a worthwhile interview with Gruen and a book club discussion guide that is more like a junior high English class test. 
From the other reviews, i was expecting to have my socks knocked off as I had in \"The Glass Castle\" by Jeannette Walls and \"Replay\" by Ken Grimwood, but instead I found that I was pleasantly entertained. No more. No less. The most impressive parts of this book were Sara's portrayal of the elderly. I imagine that life for the elderly is pretty much as she portrays it, which I found enlightening and interesting. These parts ended up being my favorite! The rest of the book is colorful, imaginative, and worthwhile. 
Very well written and and very grabbing. There were, however, 2 raunchy parts that were a little graphic, especially since they didn't really effect the whole story much. These moments felt as if they were elaborated on specifically in to draw in a larger audience via random moments of smut. For me, it cheapened an otherwise 5 star book. Really now, that was an image of a cartoon character that I did not want inside my head!LIke I said. Beautifully written--but I would have preferred if the aforementioned parts were briefly stated so you knew they happened and then moved on [like the rape scenes in Khaled Hosseini's book (Kite runner, or even the marital scenes in 1000 splendid suns) ]. 
I am one of the ones that really liked this book. I honestly chose this book because I knew the movie was coming out and wanted to read it first. I enjoyed the book better than the movie. There was much more detail. You could see the characters struggles and how they got there. I would recommend this book. It is a really fast read though. 
Enjoyed the unique look at circus life in that time.  Also, the author had a very good understanding of, not only the process of aging, but how a person experiencing it thinks and feels!  The ending was surprising and pleasant, but not really realistic. 
This is a very interesting and well-told story which kept my attention all the way through. I only gave it four stars because even though I liked the book a lot, I probably wouldn't recommend it to others because there were several sexual situations that were somewhat graphic. 
This novel was full of interesting characters and captured the difficult economic situation that many were placed in by circumstances over which they had little control. The reality of the desperation and the lack of value for human life bought the story of circus life during these harsh times. 
Sara Gruen's Water for Elephants will probably top the list for the books I read in 2010 (3 months left, so come on authors, wow me!).  It is evident that Gruen painstakingly researched life in the 1930's circuis, and her hard work paid off with a nice slice of Americana.  The book's plot kept me turning pages late into the night.Others have complained about the book's vulgarity, and I'll admit that several scenes were a bit too vulgar for my taste, but the subject is the depression-era circus, not nursery school.  While not necessarily pleasant, it was probably befitting the subject matter.The greatest praise I'll give Gruen was in her ending.  The fiction-literature authors of the last decade seem to be of the notion that a depressing ending makes for good literature.  I would like to remind these authors that I read fiction as an escape from reality, not as a desire to have more of it.  To Gruen's credit, she reached for the best ending possible, and she nailed it!  I hope the rest of her books are as good as this one! 
I did not like the many sexual content, yet I do realize in some way to make this entirely a realistic book one has to have some of that.  I particularly did not care for circus performance of the LADY ...  But what I did like was the beginning of the story of the nursing home.  I truly felt sorry for the H and It truly made me want to visit the elderly. 
I thoroughly enjoyed this book.  It was a really good story but also sad.  The end was a little far fetched, but worth your time. 
\"Water for Elephants\" by Sara Gruen is a well written, depression-era book, that most readers ages 15-95 could read and enjoy even if you think this isn't the typical type of book you would read.This book tells two stories simultaneously as a 93 yr. old crumudgeon embittered by his surroundings in a retirement home recollects his life as he travelled with a second-rate circus while falling in love with a married woman.I probably would have never read this book had it not been for a family book club (Isn't that why you have them), however I'm sure glad I did, I really did enjoy this read and found the pages turned much quicker than I anticipated.I always am interested to see how an author can write in the point-of-view pf the opposite sex and I thought it was executed wonderfully. Also, the terminology that was used was very specific to the time and to how the circus-folk spoke at the time. One could tell Gruen definately did her homework.If there is any drawback it would be the end to one of the stories (I'm not going to say which one or how it ends don't worry). I thought it ended kind of sappy and a little unbeleivable for a story that seems very factual.Bottom line, four stars. I am very stingy with my stars, so please read and enjoy. 
I enjoyed reading about the history of the circus and the anecdotes shared by Sara Gruen.  It takes you back to an age of innocence in your life where the Circus was pretty close to the best thing that ever happened to you.  The elephants and the brave ladies that rode on them.  The clowns and the ittle people.  I enjoyed recreating those memories while reading this delightful and sweet account of two circus runaways who fall in love.  Their story was predictable in so many ways.  The old Jacob part was just sad and it left a sour feeling.  However, I did enjoy reading about the circus people and their lives.  The parades and the drama behind the curtain.  The roustabouts working so hard and sleeping in crowded spaces,yet what an adventure! to travel around the country from town to town brining smiles to millions and enjoying the camradie of the circus!  I loved that part. 
...To find this book that captured the time and feel of my grandparents and my parents time of life.  I liked this book.  To me it is a \"Toby Tyler\" for adults.  An escape to the circus. It is well written and engaging.  I was expecting a sappy love story and this is simply a good story. 
The book kept me interested and moved along very well. The beginning was OK but the end was the best part. I have not seen the movie. 
It's all in the details and the people who become real. I liked how the author used past and present to age Jacob.  It added depth to a story which was already full of twists and turns. 
Jacob Jankowski is ninety years old -- or maybe he's ninety-three; he doesn't remember.  However, he does remember a very interesting part of his life.  It comes about one day when the news that a circus is in town and one of Jacob's fellow nursing home inmates brags about having worked at a circus and giving water to the elephants.  Jacob knows the old man is full of it.  After all, Jacob once worked at a circus.  Rewind seventy-something years, to the 1930s, amid the Great Depression.  Jacob is twenty-three, just weeks away from getting his degree in Cornwall University to become a certified veterinarian.  Then he receives the news that his parents died in a terrible accident.  He also discovers that they had no money -- they had invested every last penny on Jacob's Ivy League education.  Distraught, Jacob runs away.  By accident, he ends up on a train, destination unknown.  He discovers that the train is actually one that carries a traveling circus.  One thing leads to another, and he ends up working as a sort of unofficial caretaker for the animals.  He meets August and his wife Marlena.  Jacob learns many secrets to life as a circus performer and worker, meets lots of interesting people, and encounters some very unsavory things.  August, for instance, is a very unstable, unpredictable person.  He is abusive to the animals and insufferable one moment, and completely charming and obliging the next.  The way he treats the animals, especially Rosie, the new performing elephant, makes Jacob sick, but he can't do anything about it.  The Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth has its awful moments, but things get worse for Jacob when he falls in love with the beautiful Marlena...I like the way Water for Elephants changes from Jacob's present-day narrative as a cynical old man with early signs of dementia to his days as a nave young man and his struggles with wanting to fit into the Benzini Brothers and wanting to lose his virginity.  The way his voice and narrative change is clear and precise and you get drawn into this unique and at times quirky novel.  The backdrop of the Depression is wonderful and believable.  The secondary characters are compelling, especially Walter, August, Uncle Al and Marlena.  August is a horrible person, and the scenes centered on his abuse toward Rosie the elephant are indeed sickening.  It's a good thing Gruen spares us from too much information in terms of the actual abuse.  Rosie sounds adorable and I loved it when she was in the scenes.  I very much enjoyed Water for Elephants.  It's very moving and entertaining.  No wonder it became a #1 New York Times bestseller!  Even though the NYT list has never influenced my reading, especially since the stuff that makes the top list is mostly trash, it's nice to see that readers get it right every once in a while.  Sara Gruen is a great author.  I look forward to reading her future works. 
This book had me hooked from the first chapter.  It's a great saga of the circus life. It was an easy read and had a story line that kept me entertained. 
It was an interesting story, written well.  I have a new respect for elephants and the opposite for cruel handlers. 
At first glance, one might be inclined to think this circus novel an appropriate read for an adolescent audience.  However, parents may wish to read it first, as the novel contains overt sexuality and animal cruelty.That being said, both of the storylines are gripping.  The younger character experiences life in the circus as both cruel and rewarding.  The older character finds aging to be the same. 
Sara Gruen's engaging novel \"Water for Elephants\" is a well researched and cleverly formatted reminiscence of one Jacob Jankowski, a 93 or 90 year old (he can't remember which) assisted living inhabitant.  Jankowski, still in possesion of his faculties, had worked in circuses for many years and this novel is a flashback to his life at that time.  Gruen spins her story alternating chapters of Jankowski's past and present.Jankowski had been an enthusiastic veterinary student at prestigious Cornell university.  Days before sitting for his final exams, he shockingly learns that his parents had been killed in an tragic auto accident.  To his dismay, he stunningly learns that due to the economic downturn of the Great Depression, his father's veterinary business and whole estate is essentially worthless.  His parents mortgaged everything to pay for his education.Distraught and penniless, Jankowski aimlessly wanders from the Cornell campus, eventually hitching a ride, hobo style on a train that was home to the Benzini Brothers circus.  Mentored by a alcoholic but kindly circus worker named Camel, he starts working caring for the animals in what was known as the menagerie.  He will assume the duties of a true vet and work under the schizophrenic equestrian director August.  Augie is married to celebrated equestrian performer Marlena, who Jankowski falls deeply in love with.\"Water for Elephants\" is essentially a look back into the 3 1/2 months that Jankowski worked in the circus revealing the seamier underbelly of circus life from the side unseen by the \"rubes\"  or circus-goers.  The book concludes with the nonagenarian Jankowski once again fulfilling an improbable circus fantasy. 
I will say I have not seen the movie, I just read the book. This was a good book. I read it in 2 days because I got very involved in the plot. There were a couple of things I did not like, for example what happened to two of his buddies, but the story itself was good. You will never look at the circu the same way afte reading this one. 
Good book, pleasant read with some sad parts.  I would read it again.  The life of a cut circus performer\\worker is pretty entertaining. 
This book took me by surprise.  It seemed to drag a bit through the first few chapters, but then it got very interesting very quickly.  I was not a fan of the bad language, but the author really tries to put the reader in the rough circus setting and unfortunately, the circus is composed of less-than-polished people.  This book is full of action, and has a great romance story.  I loved the ending.  Minus the language and crudeness, I would give this book 5 out of 5.PS (I'VE HEARD THAT ROBERT PATTINSON WILL BE PLAYING JACOB JANKOWSKI IN THE MOVIE IN 2011!) 
This book was an absolute delight to read.  Characters fleshed out enough to actually care about them and a well-researched insight into Depression-era circus life.As fare as plot goes, there's probably nothing you haven't already seen or read a hundred times over in romance novels, or Lifetime Network movies for TV.  Same material set against a new backdrop.Sometimes a good read is just that - a good read.  It doesn't have to be life-changing - just entertaining.  I love how it was all told as a personal history.I do appreciate the author's exhaustive research to get the circus terms right.  My only (small) complaint (and maybe I missed something) was that not all the terms were defined for the reader.  It does not take away from the storyline at all. 
don't know what I expected this to be about, but I was surprised, pleasantly.  Good characters, good story, good presentation. 
Amazing. The author really did her research for this book. When reading it, it was hard to put down. She went back and forth between present day and memories, which usually bothers me, but here it didn't. I found that I enjoyed both time periods. Everything was well told and really brought the images to life while reading. It was a very colorful read. 
I found this book so easy to read! It was entertaining, educational and just troubling enough to keep me totally captivated. I would recommend this to anyone that enjoys a good book with characters you can enjoy and despise. 
The story was good enough to keep you turning pages.  The reason I liked this book was the insight into the lonely world of nursing home patients that still have all their mental facilities.  It forced me to consider how senior generations (soon my parents, then myself) will deal with frailty, dignity & mortality.  Choices are thrust upon them by well meaning do-gooders.  Maybe we should allow seniors more slack to live the lives of THEIR choosing.  Either way, it aided me to see seniors with more compassion. 
I have wanted to read Water for Elephants for some time but I needed to be in the correct frame of mind in the event there were too many disturbing animal stories. After learning my friend had a copy and my dad was currently reading it I decided it was time.This book as been billed as a love story within a circus however the love story does not really start until well after the half way point of the book, maybe even two-thirds of the way in. There are many stories happening all at once. The story of a lost boy trying to find his way, a coming of age story. The story of friendships and life long bonds. The story of an almost veterinarian finding his way in the crazy life of a train circus. And the story of love. With all these potential story lines happening at one time I found the author had a tendency to wrap them up rather simply by killing someone off leaving only the main characters to survive.While overall I did enjoy this book it was not as wonderfully fantastic as I was hoping it would be. Maybe my hopes were too high from all the rave reviews I have heard. But it just did not stand up to my expectations for this book. I will give the book 3.5 out of 5 stars. I would liked to have seen more depth to the characters, a more focused story line, and a bit more thought into how to wrap up the lives of some of the characters. 
I love books that make me feel the grit of sawdust between my teeth.  Sawdust?  Why, yes, if you're reading a circus murder mystery. Only, it isn't much of a mystery as you learn whodunnit on the second page.  Only, no, don't be so sure.  A lovely, you-are-there novel of the between-wars years in America, wherein one newly orphaned and penniless Jacob Jankowski runs away to join a down-at-the-heels circus whose owner has serious Ringling Brothers envy, complete with ladies fat and bearded, unfriendly dwarfs, and homicidal--wait, no, I'll give it away.  With an ending that made me smile all day after I finished the book. 
I really liked this book.  I'm not a fan of the storyline, but the writing carries you through a world not known to most of us.  Weird characters made real with a very easy style of writing. 
Engrossing story. I love anything that takes me into a different world and holds me there and this story does that - the writing is simple, but the characters, the settings, the whole circus world is vividly portrayed. This book is always on my TR ( to recommend ) list when people are looking for a great, sweeping read dense with everything that makes a book memorable. 
'Water for Elephants' provides an insiders peek behind the curtain of a traveling train circus. Anyone who ever went to a circus and played the games on the midway are rubes wanting to be thrilled, enchanted and take leave of reality for a day. The illusion lasts about as long as cloud of cotton candy. The inside story delves into the darker aspects of what makes the circus viable especially during the 1930's Depression era. The reader is introduced to a strict caste system from bosses to performers to roustabouts that determines one's position among a long train of characters. The practice of 'redlighting' is  particularly powerful, a Darwinian, survival of the fittest practice where the circus bosses have the used up roustabouts tossed from the train as excess baggage. Our hero is Jacob Jankowski that over the course of  only 3 1/2 months joins the circus. As a veternarian he does not fit into the caste system. Through his character we take a journey making allies with unlikely people, finding love and slaying personal deamons. 
Few novels have touched more childhood memories than Water for Elephants. As a young boy I remember the excitement of the circus coming to town with strange animals and stranger performers. Thanks for giving me a trip down memory lane while telling a wonderful story. 
Water for Elephants is an engrossing story about life in an early 1930's, depression-era traveling circus, but is also about so much more. Jacob Jankowski is presently ninety or ninety-three (he doesn't recall) and living out the end of his life in a nursing home. He has family who visit, but they are busy enough with their own lives that he is largely forgotten. A circus comes to town and Jacob thinks back on his own youthful experiences.I appreciate the story's realistic portrayal of early 20th century circus life. The animals live and work in conditions that are horrific, but at the same time they are the lifeblood of the show next to the human performers and are therefore treated well enough to that extent. The author, Sara Gruen, mentions in an interview that many of the anecdotes in the tale are plucked from real life accounts. (For example, an elephant stealing lemonade from the lemonade stand when no one is looking.) Truth is stranger than fiction, indeed. 
I bought this book on the recommendation of my good friend and I absolutely fell in love with it. Sara Gruen is so articulate and a true story-teller. She weaves a mesmerizing tale of the magical and historical side of the behind the scenes of circus life. The deceit and downright meanness' gets transformed into this entertaining tale. The people and the elephant will linger in your memory long after you finish this story. A super read and I Highly recommend this novel. 
I really enjoyed this book.  Thankfully I didn't know a lot about it prior to reading it.  The subject matter wouldn't have seemed interesting to me.  But the book was very interesting and opened my eyes to a world I've never given any thought to before.  Once you get into it, it is hard to put down. 
I knew very little about this book before I read it. I didn't know quite what to expect; but I thoroughly enjoyed it. It certainly wasn't as good as The Kite Runner or other great books I've read (thus why I didn't give it five stars), but it was still a very good story. I would easily recommend it to others. The author creates a rather fantastic situation - a Cornell veterinary student who suddenly finds himself a penniless orphan during the Great Depression. The story takes us to a circus train, a love triangle, and an elephant. Gruen weaves a wonderful tale that I found captivating, told both in the present and the past. In the meantime, I learned a great deal about circus life in the 1930s. 
Not my usual cup of tea, this was a delightful novel, quickly read, with a great setting and entertaining characters.  There were actually two stories in one -- the first being an engaging tale of a distraught youth running away with the circus and finding his manhood, love and responsibility for others.  I found the narrative compelling and the characters worth caring about.The second story, embedded in the first (or is it the other way around) is that of an elderly man, growing weaker in body, who is still sharp enough to know that he's fading quickly.  His faculties are starting to have issues, but he, again, is smart and together enough to realize this as well.  His story of a strong, vibrant will trapped in a failing vehicle is incredibly poignant, and, if a writer were talented enough, could make for a captivating book on its own.The \"easy\ high-action story of the circus makes up most of the book, but is tempered very well by the internal musings and frustrations of the second.All in all, very satisfying and highly recommended. 
Well-written and colorful book.  The movie was so bad, it really turned me off from reading this, but it was cheap so I gave it a try and enjoyed reading it.  I recommend it if you are interested in the Depression era America or circuses or a human story in general. 
This book was thoroughly enjoyable. It was a bit edgy in parts and certainly gut wrenching in others- not unlike Grapes of Wrath in feel, but although well written it is not in the calibre of Steinbeck. On that note though one isn't always im a Steinbeck type of mood.  If you like pathos, uncertainty about how things will pan out and history without the whitewash- this is a book you will like. If you like a well written, crafted novel as well, you will love this. 
Set in the Great Depression, Water for Elephants is a compelling tale, perfect for a book group discussion. Jacob Jankowski loses his parents in a car wreck and drops out of veterinary school. He finds his way aboard a circus train and begins a new life on the road. He meets and falls in love with both circus star, Marlena, who is married to the perverse animal trainer, August, and the seemingly unteachable elephant, Rosie.I was most taken by the circus details and the details from the Great Depression that Gruen used in the story. I was fascinated with life in the circus during those hard times. I also liked how Gruen moved the story back and forth in time from an elderly Jacob to a young Jacob. 
At some points during this book I wondered why it had made so many year-end \"best\" lists.  Once I had finished it, I knew the answer.  Water for Elephants is the first book I've read in ages that was capably resolved and concluded.  The satisfying ending made the rest of the book begin to shimmer, and I found myself thinking about the main character and his way of relating with others long after I'd closed the book. 
Great Book - Keeps you guessing until the end. Several people and animals in this book to root for.  Love story is interwoven in the Circus World. 
I thoroughly enjoyed this book. I loved how Sara switched between an elderly Jacob and the young Jacob. I was never bored and found it very interesting. To the reviewer who said \"X\ RIDICULOUS! It's a NOVEL. I found nothing offensive - in fact, some situations were authentically told from the male perspective (by a female writer!).  A good summer read for me! 
Water for Elephants  Algonquin Books, 2007, $8.37Sara Gruen  ISBN 1565125606I started taking steps, one foot at a time. My feet of course. The circus tent was getting closer, and I could hear the music. These are the words of Jacob Jakowski in the book water for elephants. Jacob was in veterinarian school, but before the final exam his parents were brutally killed in a car crash. As if that was not devastating enough, Jacob later found out that his parents had been accepting corn and other food items, and had put up a 2nd mortgage on their house just so he could through his final year in vet school. During his final exam, his hands were shaking, and he could not concentrate. He ran out of the room, and jumped onto a train that by chance belonged to the Beninzi Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth! His life is changed in an instant, and his world seems to be surrounded by good and evil.The book is based in the 1930s during the great depression A time. I would recommend this book for those who love realistic fiction. I have no doubt in my mind that this book is one of the best books of the year!-- Jace McBride 
This is an outstanding novel.  One can get a greater appreciation for the 1930's after reading this book.  It is also a great love story. I would recommend to anyone. 
The reviews of Water for the Elephants suggest that this book should be one of your best reads.  Well, it is -- if you can get through the first fourth of the book.  If you do, you will be greatly rewarded.  Everyone in our bookclub thoroughly enjoyed the story and it provided us a mountain of discussion that just went on and on.  I would definitely recommend it as a bookclub choice for both men and women. 
I really liked this book.  The first chapter I was not sure, but kept my interest.  I would have given ti 5 stars but I thought it was too short. 
The story line kept my interest but at times I considered not finishing it because it disturbed me.  As it progressed I begun to dislike the main character.  Then I read the interview with the author at the end of the book and found that it was her intention to portray our &#34;hero&#34; with all the flaws.  I guess my ideal is a comic book hero. 
I didn't want to like this book, but I stuck with it, and it drew me in. There's a great \"twist\" at the end- something you thought was one situation ends up being quite another indeed- that somehow redeems the whole thing. Delightful ending.I recommend this as a light summer reader. 
First, as the title of my review implies I *did* enjoy this book, and I *would* recommend this book.In a nutshell, it was a good story, put together well, well told, easily read with a good ending.  Nothing wrong there, but that's as far as it takes the reader.To those of you going into this book expecting the next great american novel, or \"the best book you ever read\" as I have seen more than a few describe it in other reviews, um.. no.  Not even close.I think all the reviews and even the critics reviews have done this otherwise very good book an injustice.  You will not find wisdom in it's pages, nor will you laugh/cry/etc (at least I didn't).So, if you go into reading this book with the expectation of a good read, you won't be dissapointed.  If your looking for something special, I just didn't find it in this book.In the end, my criticism isn't with this book, but all the incorrect accolades poured upon it. 
I'm trying to hold back and be nice, remembering I just finished rereading The Great Gatsby (and there's not much that can compare to that)!  Overall, I liked the book.  I found the depiction of circus and railroad life during the depression very interesting.  It appeared that the author did some in depth research.  The flashback technique between the circus and the nursing home, however, left me flat.  I did not feel that the nursing home chapters were of the same quality as the circus chapters and frankly rushed through them to get back to the \"real\" story.  If anyone starts the book, however, keep going as the ending is well done.My disappointment in this book came from the author's handling of important thematic materials.  The scene was set for so many important (and universal) statements and the author simply threw them away.  So much could have been written about class structure, disability awareness, capitalism, fairness in advertising, care of the elderly, animal rights, etc. and nothing came forth.  There was no symbolism or connections to classic themes, and I sure missed the place where the main character was equated with the biblical Jacob.  Those efforts would have made the difference between a book that will last and one that won't be remembered in ten years. 
This novel is a beautiful love story surrounded by a fascinating spectacle. It goes without saying that if you are a circus lover you will really enjoy reading this book. Sara Gruen provokes tears, smiles, and sighs along with other emotional reactions from the reader by encompassing circus life without failing to include any heart wrenching details. I highly recommend this book to anyone looking to go on a circus adventure and test the resilience of love. 
Wow, 1696 reviews to date!  Oprah's recommendation really can motivate a lot of women with time on their hands LOL!  I won't even bother to read the 5-star reviews because I'll probably agree with all the specifics about what a good book this is.  It has colorful, well-fleshed out characters with only a few cardboard stereotypes, great sense of historical and circus detail, and a neat surprise ending.The trouble is, this does not belong up there with some great recent, innovative works, the true 5-stars, like Memoirs of a Geisha or The Kite Runner.  One thing they all have in common is introducing us to a foreign or unfamiliar world, in this case the depression-era circus.  But those other two books have a depth of soul, and a more comprehensive world-view, than Water for Elephants.I was also disappointed with a big, loose thread in the plot, where Camel was to be reunited with his son and the reader was set for that pivotal event, only to be let down and short-circuited by the surprise ending.You will definitely enjoy this book, and be enlightened to learn more about life during the Depression, but keep it in perspective, let's not give standing ovations for every good show. 
I have strongly mixed feelings about _Water for Elephants_.  The alternating story between the daily life of a 90-ish year old man and his cantankerous behaviour with his youth as a circus vet kept my attention; the details about the social heirarchy between members of the circus was (on the authority of a former circus roustabout friend of mine) accurate; and I have to admit, I am a sucker for a love story.  However, as previous reviewers have noted, the 1930's vernacular, and the mannerisms of men of that era were abhorrent - but then I am a stickler for these kinds of detail.The story - of a Cornell vet student who quits his final exams before graduation to join the circus and his subsequent adventures (and love story) has undoubtedly caught the imagination of the vast majority of Amazon reviewers - including myself.  Yet I deduct a star because of the lack of attention to detail regarding the male protagonists and the verbage of the time.  For most readers, this apparently isn't an issue, in which case I would stronlgy recommend it.As far as breezy summer reads go, this certainly fits the bill - who *hasn't* fantasized about running off with the circus?  (Happily oblivious to the hard work, long hours and mediocre pay ...)  Which among us doesn't dream (or hasn't dreamed) of finding  your soul-mate on such an adventure?  Recommended, particularly for the romantics among us. 
Decided to read this after seeing the movie, which I enjoyed.  I highly recommend the book as worthwhile to read. 
This book begins and ends with the main character, Jacob Jankowski, in his 90's and residing in a nursing home.  He doesn't remember how old he is or even the people that take turns coming to visit him.  But what he does remember more than makes up for his current state of boredom.  The beginning reminded me of Stephen King's \"The Green Mile\".  The author obviously had to do a great deal of research into circus life during the depression in order to write this book.  What she found does not make a pleasant story.  Being an animal lover, the cruelty displayed toward the animals, especially Rosie the elephant, really disturbed me.  I still have a hard time believing that Jacob, who had nearly received his degree as a veterinarian and loved Rosie, would not have done more to prevent it. The cruelty displayed towards the employees was just as bad.  Railroad goons would actually push workers off moving trains in the middle of the night rather than pay them.  I thought the affair between Jacob and Marlena was not as torrid as it should have been.  Rosie was my favorite character - she was described in human terms which made the cruelty more difficult to endure.  In the end, both the peon workers and Rosie got even.  But that was not even the ending that made this book such a great read.  I was so excited when I read the ending, I had to tell someone about it!  It was the best ending ever!! 
THIS BOOK WAS VERY WELL WRITTEN AND VERY WELL RESEARCH.  I ENJOYED THEINFORMATION ON THE CIRCUS AND THE YEARS OF THE DEPRESSION.  SOME OF THENURSING HOME WAS A BIT UNSETTLING.  THE MEANEST TO THE ELEPHANT WAS ALSOSOMEWHAT UPSETTING. OVER ALL I WOULD SAY IT WAS AN ENJOYABLE FAST READ. 
Very insightfull into the lives of Carnies.  I always sensed their lives must be harsh, but never know how much. This book depicts the &#34;animal&#34;/dark side of human nature (way boss treated his employees) and the &#34;Human&#34;/bright  side of Elephants (how loyal and loving they can be) .  We can learn lots from our 4 legged friends. 
I loved the book.  The only thing that keeps me from giving it 5 stars is there are second, though necessary, that I felt I had to trudge through. 
This book does provide a fairly riveting story set within post depression America and also provides good insights into the circus business during this era. The book balances the dynamics of maintaining a circus in tough economic times against a host of vivid and disparate personalities that can both support and challenge the stability of the circus. For example there is Big Al who runs the circus with a nearly ruthless practicality, \"redlighting\" individuals who violate his rules. There is August, second in command, alternately tough and gracious, supportive and cruel. There is Jacob, the hero, who stumbles into the world after fleeing Cornell Vet School and who subsequently falls in love with August's wife. The book alternates between the young Jacob in the circus and the elderly Jacob in a nursing home. Some of the dialogue the characters use during the depression era sounds like it came from the 21st century but other than that there is a gritty, often grotesque and unblinking realism in everything from death to romance. 
Calling it a love story doesn't do it justice as it is so much more. Really liked the meticulously researched historical aspects of the story both from the point of view of America in depression and also a backstage pass into traveling circuses of that time, which alone was worth the price of admission. 
In our hurried lives filled with responsibilities and all the stress associated with it, how many of us dream to run away with the circus?Well in Water for Elephants by Sara Gruen, the central character Jacob Janjowski runs away from his life's troubles to join the Benzini Brothers train circus.In this new adventure Jacob comes of age with the circus freaks, clowns, and countless animals that dazzle the imagination of the many that come to peek into a world of wonder. He discovers love, hard work, and his passion for animals.Water for Elephants by Sara Gruen takes the reader on the lost world of the traveling circuits in an age that many lost hope because of the peril circumstances of the Great Depression.The first few pages simply grab you and you will not want to miss this page turner and the mystic circus world. 
I was skeptical of a book detailing life in a traveling circus.  But overall this was an entertaining and well written book.  There were a few things that didn't flow well or weren't really explained (or at least I didn't understand them) like why Jacob was so outraged at the gentleman who said he had worked at the circus or for what reason Marlena was throwing a suprise for her husband (that ended up going poorly).  But these uncertainties didn't stop me from enjoying the story.  Surprising twist.  Sweet ending. 
Somehow Sara Gruen managed to make a thriller out of a nursing home escape via front wheel walker and wheelchair.  Just my way to illustrate a wonderful writing style and imagination. 
Water for Elephants took a little while to fully grab my attention, with the flash backs between the circus and Jacob's time in the nursing home.  Once it got my attention it held it right through to the very end.There were a few relationships that stood out in my mind.  The first was between Rosemary and Jacob.  Their relationship exemplified the relationship I would hope all nursing home staff had with the residents.  Her understanding and patience as Jacob flashes back and forth between the present day and his youth is remarkable, and her connection seems to surpass the bond he shares with his children.I never would have thought I would enjoy a book that centered around the cicus, but this novel was about so much more than just the shows under the big top.  It focused on love, friendship, aging and compassion. 
The writing and story were wonderful but the end came way too quickly I could have stayed entertained much longer. I was born in 1945 and like other little poor kids we loved when the circus came to the area. 
What an enjoyable book!  The plot, although at times a little predictable, was refreshing and well written.  I fell in love with Jacob young, but especially Jacob old.  His frustration with the tricks his body and mind had played on him were real and understandable.  His joy at the end of the book put a grin on my face. I know there have been quite a few of you who found the profanity excessive and gratuitous, but I think it fit the station of life and the time period and would not let it stop me from a book this enjoyable.  I would recommend this book to anyone, but especially those of you who find the time period of the 30's facinating. 
This is a really sweet, creative and unexpected story of love and survival. A quick, but memorable read. 
This beautifully written novel opens with Jacob, age 93 or 90 - he doesn't remember which.  The book flashes back and forth from Jacob's present life in an old-age home to his young adult life caring for animals in a traveling circus.  Though a bit over the top, this story is so marvelously told that I found myself turning page after page savoring the prose. 
A  truly  great read with a slice of American history thrown in.  I recommend this book  to history buffs and animal lovers , alike. 
I really enjoyed this.  The 'past' story is brilliant--I loved how we return to the Prologue events at the end.  Not so impressed with the ending of the book itself (the 'present'), but otherwise, entertaining and enjoyable.  Well-executed! 
Watched the film first and loved it. The book didn't disappoint either. Even though I had watched the film it was an interesting read, it didn't feel boring to read what I've already seen. The characters's good, I especially liked Walter and some other of the minor roles, the rhythm of the writing flowing and easily read. Jacob's tone and style of talking is well carried through the book. It feels like you're there. It was also fascinating to get glimpses of his current, old life. What he had become after all of the adventures, an old man forgotten by his children and family, reliving his past. It was sad, and you could understand his grumpiness.There's just something about circuses that's fascinating. It was interesting to \"learn\" how the circus worked in the 30s, how they travelled by train, how the hierarchy was arranged, how you lived your life in a circus. 
It was a great book to read better than the movie.Everyone should definitely read this book. I absolutely loved everything about it. 
This book was just wonderful! I love how it turned into a love story with some crazy things happening along the way. Awesome read! 
I had been wanting to read this for awhile, so I finally ordered it from Amazon.  I was not disappointed!  The story was wonderful, uplifting, and bittersweet.  Gruen's research on circus history added much to an already entertaining plot.This is another book my 14-year-old son read after I did.  There are some graphic parts though, so use your own judgment before you pass it on to your kids.Enjoy! 
I was hesitant to read this book because I'm not particularly interested in the circus, however; it was a revealing inside look at how hard 'carnie' life was. It also shows how life can throw you some curve balls that completely changes the path you take. This story flowed and it was hard to put down...nice and easy to follow. 
I was apprehensive at first about reading the book since it was  already out in a movie, but I truly enjoyed the book.Good read! 
I really enjoyed this book but I don't really know why. The story was not anything extraordinary. The love story left something to be desired. Does anyone understand where exactly that came from? One minute he sees her across a crowded room and then bang!she just happens to love him too. Okay then, don't bother to really get to know each other. Some of the characters were hardly developed, Marlena mainly. There were moments I found to be quite crude and crass. However, somehow I know that years from now I will look back at this read fondly.My best guess is that I just liked the voice found throughout the novel. In fact I would go so far as to say the narration was superb. I have always been a fan of first person and while the bulk of this story is in fact first person, Gruen superbly weaves a sort of third person narration. The transitions are so smooth that you barely notice the shift. Gruen is just a superb narrator or maybe it's Jacob who does the great job?Now for a few thoughts on the film; I have four words, don't waste your time. If the narration and not the actual story is what makes the book then it is a no brainer that a movie would fall very short. This film was really not good, at least from where I was sitting. Maybe it has to do with the major lack of chemistry between Witherspoon and Pattinson? 
Wonderful book. I liked the audio book on my long drive to and from work. I liked how the voice changed from young to older. I'm glad I read/listened to the book before I saw the movie. I liked the book better than the movie 
This book was very interesting and it had a great story line. I had no idea a circus could be like that and I enjoyed the book very much. 
I picked up this book not knowing anything about the subject.  However, I was pleasantly surprised when I found that a veterinarian was the main character.  Very good book, kept me interested until the end. 
I found this book to be a very entertaining read, combining historical facts about circus life with a love relationship.  I liked the manner in which the author wrote and her vivid characters.  It wasn't a deep, complicated novel, but a good story. 
Water for Elephants begins by pulling back the curtain on the inner workings of a nursing home, a man begins to speak of the adventure of life in the circus. The book reminded me once again of how much I detest nursing homes. I remember when I volunteered at a nursing home... it was so hard to shake the feeling of depression as soon as you walked in, no matter how many activities you planned. It was a sad place filled with lonely people staring out of the front doors just hoping family or friends would come visit them. Yet as you roamed the halls you could hear the most amazing stories of lives lived so fully when age did not seem to have the slightest grip. As you read Water for Elephants just like with any life there are parts which you might wish had been edited out, yet the story so clearly shines the light on a life lived fully and how society tries to shelve those it believes no longer have something of value to offer...**This book is not recommended for all ages, as it definitely contains adult material** 
Except for Harry Potter series, most books are always better than the movie. In this case, it definitely is. A must read. I believe it will become a classic for students to read twenty years from now. 
A remarkably fast read,leaving the reader breathless from tight action and tingling suspense.  This book reveals the glitz and sparkle of the circus, along with its dark and terrible underside that lurks barely out of sight.  The two time frames - of old Jacob and young Jacob - are carried through smoothly by Gruen, who ties the events together  with skillful repetition of words and phrases.  I wish there were more novels that take place during the Depression - an era that had such enormous impact on our society and continues to reverberate in modern times.  This book did not make me want to run away and join a circus.  It did make me happy that movements toward animal-less circuses have made a toehold. 
I get the creeps when I think of circuses from the mid 1900's. That was one of the reasons I put off reading this book even though I bought it quite some time ago. Eventually I just had no more unread books left and too long for my paycheck to arrive. I picked it up and barely put it down. I really got me hooked from the start and despite my despise of circuses I really liked it. I do think Gruen could have made Marlena more alive in the story. To me, she was just a beautiful girl. Her character never seemed to gain any life. But I especially cared for Jacob and the looking back of the old Jacob. It got me thinking of life, nursery homes and love.  You might even say it moved me. It didn't cure me though - circuses still gives me the creeps! 
This was a nice, fun read especially after reading a book that was emotionally taxing.  I couldn't help but love Jacob Jankowski.  I'm glad the story ends as it did.  It makes the idea of \"running away and joining the circus\" seem like a plausible solution when life gets a little too overwhelming;-) 
I picked this book up by chance at the bookstore. I was interested at once in the subject and the characters. I know nothing about the circus and was captivated by the descriptions of depression era circuses. This was all new territory for me and to find out in the notes at the end that all this information was based on fact was exciting.I loved having each chapter start with a picture from the Ringling Brothers circus archives. I wasso happy at the ending, I truly did not see it coming. Such a feel good story. I have recommended it to many of my friends, including my book club. Try it, you will like it. 
These days, whenever I see that a novel is being made into a movie, I assume that it must be at least somewhat decent.  With the recent release of the movie, I decided to pull my copy on loan from my bookshelf and read it before venturing out to the theater to see the movie (or, more likely now, renting it).Water for Elephants is definitely different from the other fiction I normally read.  The book takes place after the Great Depression, and Gruen did a lot of research surrounding circuses during that time to influence her book.  Many of the chapters began with a picture from circus archives, which really added to the experience of reading the book.  I absolutely loved how the chapters alternated between the main character's experience in his early 20's as the circus veterinarian and as a 93-year-old man in a nursing home.  It really made me think about the stories of my own grandparents, who are nearing their 90's themselves.The diverse cast of characters in the circus also made the drama of circus life a fascinating read.  I had no idea of the caste system in circus life, the treatment of employees and animals alike, and how competitive circus troupes were during this challenging era in U.S. history.I have heard that the book is better than the movie.  I admit that I am a bit skeptical about the movie given some of the casting choices for its main characters.  But, like any avid book lover, I do intend to see the movie to see how it compares to one of the best books I've read so far this year.  I highly recommend this book for those who want a story with adventure, romance, and excitement under the big top. 
Water for Elephants is fundamentally a love story, set in the almost magic world of the circus, laid bare in all its savagery. Told in retrospect, by a now aging protagonist, it is overlaid with an uncomfortable insight into life in a nursing home. Sarah Gruen does a wonderful job, speaking convincingly as both young and old. Her detail is a work of art in itself as it transports us solidly into yesteryear. 
The idea of running away with the circus definitely appeals sometimes - especially when your own life has turned into one - but Gruen's gritty, real account of that life is enough to make me tuck in and contain my self to watching Cirque on tv. Scariest part about it is that I know it's based on the truth - not the story, but the time. She did great research on travelling circuses.The romance was gorgeous. And while I refuse to give out spoilers, I will tell you that she surprised me. I was sure the romantic outcome was going to come out one way and she made the change beautifully.The ending? Maybe a little saccharin, but why not? You can't leave the circus without candy floss. 
I read the book first, then saw the movie, of course, the book was better.  But I like both and would recommend the book and the movie. 
\"Life is the best show on earth\"I have never read a book about the circus - or even gone to a circus for that matter. Yet, reading this book through Jacob Jankowsi's memories, I feel like I know what goes on like I've been many times before.\"I don't talk much about those days. Never did. I don't know why - I worked on circuses for nearly seven years, and if that isn't a fodder for conversation, I don't know what is.\"There is so much that happens in Water for Elephants, from the point where Jacob discovers his parents are dead and flunks his veterinary exam to the point he runs away to the circus (and unknowingly at that). Soon he discovers that the circus has so much to offer, and it's own perils as well. When he meets Marlena and begins developing feelings for her, he finds himself standing on thin ice with her husband August, and when things begin to turn sour it seems he's not the only one out to get him.\"I am ninety. Or ninety-three. One or the other.\"But there's another side to this story - the Mr. Jankowski who lives in the nursing home after the rest of his family seems to have forgotten about him. The man who doesn't quite remember how old he is. Who doesn't like the 'food' (if you can call it that). The man who still remembers his days at The Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth.The story was well crafted and encompassed all the different elements of life in the circus. Some actual photographs found at the beginning of each chapter added to the 'realness' of the plot and make the whole store seem even more realistic. Similarly, the characters were well developed, and the patriarchal hierarchy of circus performers vs. workmen was explored also. I loved to see how Marlena became a stronger character throughout the novel, eventually taking a definite stand against her mentally instable husband. And Jacob? Well, during the whole story he was there to learn the ropes and was always there to stand for what was right - for the animals he treated and the people he became friends with.*CONCLUSION*Overall, I really enjoyed Water for Elephants. I felt completely immersed in the circus lifestyle and was always desperately wanting to flick through the pages and find out what was happening next. Next on my list is to see the movie and see how it compares. 
i enjoyed reading this book. Although it will not go down in the ranks of a great American Classic, it is still agood read. There was a feeling for the desperation of the period, and the atypical lives of the circus. Some of the characterizations were a bit shallow and somewhat predictable, the plot manages to keep the reader engaged. I enjoyed the contrasting chapters of the young protagonist and his later, elderly self. The ending is sweet, but quite unplausible. All of these things considered, I still gave this book an overall 4 rating. 
I have just started reading again and I decided this would be my first book in years.I was not disappointed as the author paints a vivid picture of the characters with an adequate storyline.  If you are looking for large adventures in the Circus, then this book is probably not for you.. but if you are interested in a good read with some very interesting characters, then I recommend it.It brings you into a world that you likely never knew existed. 
This has become a must read with so many favorable reviews I kept looking forward to being captured by it.  It really is two stories in one book.  The old man's story is wonderful.  My father resides in a residency care facility and the insights of the old man made me think about what my father is facing.  The loss of dignity and the battling soul struck home.In my view the main story was only fair.  The story seemed to be telegraphed and I could not get my self terribly interested. 
I liked the book. It was very different from what I usually pick, but I have heard so many people talking about it I had to buy it. I'm glad I decided to read it. 
Great book - enjoyed it.  Thought it started out a little slow, but once I got into it, couldn't put it down. 
A little  of slow go but once the characters where established the interest took off.  A very sweet ending  with fond memories. 
This book was ok but not on my repeat read list.  She is a good writer and the characters are realistic. 
We read this as a book club.  SOme members went to the movie to compare and were disappointed in the movie.  Book is great. 
I read this book hearing nothing but good things, and the fact that I never read books about the circus, gave me cause for concern.  Never judge a book by its cover, I loved it!  The details of circus life are so interesting, along with the plot and characters.  A book I will never forget.  So good I gave it to my parents to read, both in their 60's and they loved it as well. 
Thoroughly enjoyed reading about Jacob and his life as a circus vet.  The train rides from place to place were most interesting, As were his trysts.  If you're a circus fan you would definitely find it very good. 
I love any book that changes subjects or character's voice each chapter.  It kept me wanting to read it.  It wasn't a re-reader, but I definitly love the time pieces that represent a historical era and place.  I haven't seen movie yet, but recommend this book for the love of history and romance. 
I had absolutely no clue what \"Water for Elephants\" by Canadian author, Sara Gruen, was about, but did hear it had already been made into a movie.  I felt I approached the book without prejudice as I started reading.An interesting setting and era sets this book apart from other light summer reads.  I felt it was a bit underwhelming given all the 5-star Amazon reviews it received.  I didn't completely engage with the protagonist, Jacob Jankowski, although some of the other side characters were quite well-drawn (Kinko/Walter, Camel & Uncle Al come to mind).I liked the use of flashbacks from the ageing Jacob, but the romance was a bit  facile and predictable.  And I did think of the \"Sophie's Choice\" love triangle before reading it here in other reviews.I liked all the bits about the circus workers, animals and the process of putting on the show.  Otherwise, I felt it was a good story written in an okay style.  I probably just expected more after all the rave reviews it got. 
I really enjoyed this book, it is interesting and hold's your interest. The premise of the book is creative, I recommened this read. 
I sure am glad I never ran away to join the Circus. Reading this book I discovered it is avery Hard Life. However I did like how the story went back and forth from the present to the past. I really felt bad for the animals,especially the Elephant.I got very fond of some of the characters. Felt like I was going through their Happy and Sad times. Sara is a good story teller,she kept my interest throughout the whole book. 
As a person in his 70s who deals with a mother-in-law in her 90s, I found much Jacob's trials in the nursing home close to home. That he could escape into the memory of his youthful connection with the circus was probably a life saver for him.Ms Gruen did a masterful job of separating and at the same time blending Jacob's experiences in his youth with those in his present state of being 90 or 93.It is worth reading this book all the way through to get to a surprising and wonderful end that I shall not reveal so as not to spoil it for others.Ms Gruen obviously researched circuses. Her attention to detail, both when she wrote about the circus and also when she wrote about the nursing home helped make the story realistic.All in all, it was well written and held my attention. 
Water for Elephants draws you in from the very beginning. The story is fast paced and details circus life during the Depression years, making the reader see that for many, the circus was a way to keep food in one's stomach, when others had no jobs and were going hungry.Gruen does a good job of detailing the factual side of operating and working a circus, while keeping the story engaging. The only minor problem is that characterization is a bit weak, especially regarding Jacob, the main character.The book contains photos from circus archives, which is a nice touch. 
Circus life, during the American Depression. Told in the first person by Jacob Jankowski a young college boy who is suddenly orphaned and penniless and finds himself literally on board the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth! There's a prologue where we discover a secret which Jacob has kept for seventy years then we begin the story, alternating between 1931 and the modern day with an elderly Jacob.Very easy to read...I found myself flicking pages quickly. Gruen seems to capture the circus's attraction and glitz as well as it's often uncomfortable reality. The hierarchy from the roustabouts to the performers and bosses is fascinating and Gruen's descriptions bring to life the days when circuses had trains (conjuring up images from Dumbo!)The novel pulls you in, starting off slowly and ends up unputdownable as you have to find out what eventually happened/happens. I found the contrast between the way the Jacob of 'then' and 'now' is treated, both startling and thought provoking and ultimately I just really enjoyed reading about something I had little knowledge of, with a good twist in the tale. 
This book can be pretty graphic for younger kids.  I was a little surprised when I read it.  Our oldest was 12 when she finished it, her teacher had recommended it.  I talked to my d about it and she was fine, many things depend on the maturity of the child.  It is a very good story and I cried during the movie. 
I enjoyed the parts with young Jacob, but didn't like the transition to nursing home Jacob. I would have given this book 5 stars if it weren't for those interludes, which just made me sad and empty. I believe the story stood just as strongly without the flashforwards. The relationship between Marlena and Jacob was titillating, and I was just as consumed with routing for them as I was waiting for August to get what he deserved. I haven't been so affected by a villain on the page in a long time--perhaps it was his abuse of the animals, especially Rosie, which made him so heinous in my eyes.Gruen's treatment of her secondary characters ranged from well-developed to shadows, but each served his or her own purpose because that's how I imagine life in a circus community--there are so many people around all the time that you would feel you know them, even if you hadn't actually held a real conversation with them.The circus rocked, but even the quasi-happy ending couldn't bring me out of the funk of the nursing home. 
I admit it, I liked this book. It revolves around themes of \"who is my family\" when one is adrift at sea, biologically speaking. I know there are criticisms of the cruelty to animals issues and I was uncomfortable with them also. However, the story is set in the 1920-30's and it is about the circus. I believe Ms. Gruen wrote accurately about how animals fared in that time and place.Reviewed by Holly Weiss, author of Crestmont 
I&#8217;m ambivalent about this novel. It&#8217;s good. It&#8217;s very nice. It&#8217;s a page-turner. It doesn&#8217;t suffer the fate of many, many novels &#8212; even some of my best loved &#8212; but there was something missing.That&#8217;s a convoluted way of saying I enjoyed it but it didn&#8217;t stick with me.Plot and pacing are excellent in this novel. I often write that most books need to be shorter. Novelists seem to always come up with a great opening. Better ones have great endings. Most fail in the middle. That middle third of most novels is such a bore to me. I think it&#8217;s filler to beef up a word count. I didn&#8217;t find this in Water for Elephants at all. Gruen can structure a story and keep the pace going. That&#8217;s a terribly hard thing to do and she pulled it off wonderfully.With one glorious exception, however, the characterization fell flat for me. Did I care about the characters? Kinda. Did I care about the romance? No. What did touch me was the role of the older Jacob. How this young, female writer climbed into the head of a ninety plus year old man, I&#8217;ll never know but his thoughts and actions rang true. He was facing death but still facing life and his inner monologue caused an almost claustrophobic feeling in myself. My god, I kept thinking. This could very well be me - trapped in a body, aware that I&#8217;m losing my mind to age and, most frightening of all, without the ability to do a damned thing about it. I hope to elicit that kind of reaction in a reader one day.The parts of the novel confined to an old man doing nothing much more than sitting in a wheelchair will stick with me for a while. I may go back and read those bits at times. The parts with the trains, circus, performances, midgets, elephants, romance and violence? Not so much. 
I love historical novels, and this is one of my favorites. The circus in the Great Depression era is a great setting for the underlying love story. The internal struggles the main characters go through are timeless, and highly resonate with our modern times, perhaps in part because both eras had economic hardship. The book is narrated by a 93 (or 96, as he can't remember his real age) man. His character is very well put together, very real. The book has an optimistic message of triumph over adversity and the value of friendship and true love. 
I really enjoyed this book.  It was like nothing I had ever read before.  Not my favorite, but still captivating.  Definitely worth it! 
Water for Elephants was a fantastic book.  Easy to read and interesting.  Most impressively, a topic that I never gave much thought to, Depression-Era travelling train circuses, was something I enjoyed reading about.  To be honest, I never knew there was such a topic.  Now I'm wondering if there are any Industrial Revolution cat juggling books out there that I should be reading.  Anyway, Gruen seemed to do a decent amount or research for the book, so I learned a little something about the topic.  The best part of the book was the fantastic ending.  More books should end like that. 
Sara Gruen spins a fascinating tale of murder, love, obsession, and life in Water for Elephants.  The characters were interesting and well developed.  Her portrayal of the elderly was spot-on without being stereotypical.  That's a very difficult thing to do; not many authors are capable of unraveling the story of an elderly character.Her portrayal of circus life is intriguing, and the characters never failed to invoke strong feelings of endearment, horror, amusement, or pity.  I wouldn't call this a \"must read,\" but it is definitely an interesting story that was well written and well researched. 
It's also the only circus novel I've ever read. This is an entertaining drama novel with a love triangle. The characters are nicely fleshed out, and there is a nice to and fro between Jacob's current life as a ninety year old and his adventures in the circus. Gruen does a charming job of describing Jacob as an old man and the ending is very good. Whilst the book is good I think it has been lucky that it has benefitted from great marketing and a big budget film as there are other books which are more powerful & more deserving than this book that have not received any recognition.Enjoyably recommended. 
This book was not what I was expecting at all. Although I don't know what I was expecting. I was taken on a journey that I thoroughly enjoyed and have shared the book with others. 
The details and descriptions were wonderful, but the story could've been a little tighter.  Good characters and an absorbing read, overall. 
I found this book interesting because of the research Ms. Gruen obviously did on train circuses and depression-era life. I also thought her passages detailing the life of Jake as an old man were the best written things in the book. Since Ms. Gruen is a woman who appears (from her author's photo) to be barely middle-aged, I have to assume that some research went into finding out about the lives of elderly men as well, because she writes these passages with a clear and utterly believable voice that truly resonates.Unfortunately nothing else in the book resonates nearly as much, and there's a lot lacking here. The young version of Jake never takes off as a character, nor does his entirely manufactured love story with a circus bareback rider. We know from the moment he sees Marlena that she'll obviously be his love interest, but their relationship never actually develops before they're suddenly declaring love for one another and hitting the sack.Ms. Gruen also fails in her execution of believable villains. Her two main villains are August, a brutal horse trainer who abuses or neglects all of the animals, and \"Uncle Al\ the cruel circus boss, but their villainy never really jumps off the page. For some reason, she chose to make her main antagonist (August) Jewish. I still don't understand the reasoning behind that, nor do I understand her choice to call him a paranoid schizophrenic as well. Oh and for good measure, he's also a wife beater. He's simply too many things rolled into one. Perhaps if she'd concentrated on one aspect of his brutality, she could have made him more believable. And unfortunately, since his religion really has nothing else to do with him as a character, it's hard not to simply label Ms. Gruen as anti-semitic. Perhaps if she'd actually used the \"show, don't tell\" philosophy and let us SEE what Uncle Al was doing instead of just hearing about everything second hand from other characters, he wouldn't have seemed so two-dimensional. As it is, I never bought these guys as the towering pillars of pure evil they were obviously supposed to be.I also never bought Jake, at least not as a young man. One minute he's making a vow to himself that he'll stay with the animals so they won't be hurt, because that's what his dead father would want him to do. Yet, he stands by not once but TWICE and allows August to savagely beat an elephant with a hook. It's hard to respect a character like that. Jake rarely takes any real action; he mostly just stands by while things happen TO him or happen *around* him.I also felt the book could have benefited from a diagram. In books that take place on ships, there's usually a sketch in the front of the book with all the parts labeled for readers to refer back to so they can understand the action. I had a lot of trouble visualizing the train where a good 40% of the crucial action takes place in this book, and that was a major barrier to getting into the story. Had there been a sketch of it up front with all the sections labeled, those sections of the story would have been much easier to understand.Overall, I am giving this book 4 stars because of the research, the informative author's note at the end, and the sections with Jake as an old man. I also really got a kick out of the ending. But on the whole, I would recommend this as a library book or a used book store book -- definitely NOT one you pay full price for. 
This lovely novel is especially meaningful if you are caring for someone elderly - I hope it helps me look a little differently at someone painfully leaning on a walker or sitting quietly in a wheelchair.I knew nothing about the world of the circus - you don't have to - this book will catch you up in its spell. 
captured my interest from chapter one. interesting look at the circuses of the past, as well as a love story. recommended reading 
Well written, well researched and interesting look into a subject I knew little about. Although the book was about circus trains during the depression years, the real message was that getting old is \"hell.\" What a heart wrenching portrayal of this man recalling his few years when he ran away and joined the circus. But mostly how horrible it is to be old, forgetting important things and having family forget you. Rosie the Elephant is a wonderful character. 
It was good. About elephants for the most part. They have tusks sometimes, but this on  didn't. So happy hat. 
I first heard about Water for Elephants as a project that began during NaNoWrimo a few years back when I was trying NaNoWrimo for the first time. It was inspiring to hear.Yet it took me years to get around to reading this book despite many recommendations.I LOVED it!The author did a lovely job of handling so many characters big and small. She kept solid control over their little quirks, tics, etc.I particularly enjoyed seeing everything first-person present through Jacob's eyes, but I do think he was more of a woman's man than a man's man. Not that I need him to be a boar or a brute, but he was a touch more on the emotional swing side than I generally like in male characters in stories of this ilk.Didn't really matter though, because the whole package of this tale enchanted me.Wholeheartedly recommend (but be prepared to be disappointed with the movie if you read the book first). 
This is a good book that brings to light the underbelly of the circus that is not quite as glamerous as one might imagine. I book that leave you wondering what attracts performers to that type of life. 
When his parents are killed in a car accident, 23-year-old Jacob Jankowski, in a state of shock, skips out on his veterinary school finals and hops a passing train. The train happens to be that of the Flying Squadron of the Benzi Brothers Greatest Show On Earth, a middle-of-the-road depression era circus. Jacob earns a job as the circus' vet, caring for a small menagerie of animals.The story is told by a 90- or 93-year-old (he can't remember which) Jacob living in a nursing home many years later. And although this aspect adds depth to Jacob's character, it dragged a little for me. However, the main story, that of Jacob's adventure with the circus, is full of energy. Parts of his romantic involvement with one of the circus performers felt a little predictable, but most of the story was engrossing. Gruen's meticulous research shows throughout the book. The story is never bogged down in details, but her vibrant writing brings the circus to life so well that at times I felt like I was watching a really good movie. 
This was a wonderful story. It took you back to a world that was going through hard times but still managed to have some magic and hope. I truely enjoyed the story and think it is a great adventure to take. 
I was concerned that I wouldn't be able to finish this book, once purchasing, because of the comments from reviewers about animal cruelty.  I am very, very sensitive to that topic, so I was leery, and I imagine others out there may be as well.  However, my desire to read the best seller, and my husband's assurances (after listening to it), that he thought I would be ok, convinced me to listen to it.  For those of you that might have this same problem, I think you should go ahead.  I really enjoyed this story and it's worth listening to.  Yes, I could have done without some of the scenes, but it all turns out in the end, and the author doesn't get too terribly descriptive or excessive - so that you just can't listen to another second.  Also, these scenes are limited, and they are kind of an integral  part to the story.  I listened to the audio version and the narrators are excellent as well.  Very enjoyable story! 
Seems to depict a type of circus life and it's hectic life style..  it had fun, love, action, sadness and raw life.  Interesting! 
Water For Elephants tells the story of one man's life with the circus as the backdrop to all of his experiences.Jacob is a student studying to become a veterinarian when his parents are killed in an accident and he is left with no family, no money  and he walks away from that life.  He ends up picking up some work with a traveling circus and his life takes a turn that he never anticipated.  He becomes a part of the circus family (as dysfunctional as can be..........but they put the fun in dysFUNctional!)Jacob recalls his life, while he is over 90 years old and relegated to a nursing home. A nurse mentions that the circus is in town and everyone will have the opportunity to attend a show. As he sits at a dinner table with several other elderly folks, one man looking to gain attention from the women makes the claim that he \"..used to carry the water for the elephants.\"  Jacob calls him a liar, because Jacob knows the amount of water that an elephant consumes, and those vast quantities could not be carried by one man.  When a nurse asks if Jacob worked in a circus he does not answer her, and that is when his memories are brought to life.  As he waits for his outing, the days pass and he relives the last 70+ years of his life in his mind.  The stories that are told about how the circus works, the value that is placed on the money coming in, the care or lack there of, for the animals, the living conditions on the trains for the circus workers...........all these things and more come alive in Jacob's tale.While it seems that the story starts a bit hesitantly, soon the reader is caught up in the tale, what happens to the different people, the relationship between the \"stars\" and the workers, many aspects of a traveling circus are revealed, even in the treatment of the animals!This story is an interesting portrayal of life in a traveling circus, and the ending is an unexpected one that takes you unaware.This is Sara Gruen's first novel and she is nominated for two Quill writing awards. 
Water for Elephants takes you to the time of the Great Depression on a circus train.  I was hesitating on reading this story because I thought it would be heartbreaking.  It's hard for me to read about animal cruelty and reading about a circus there is bound to be some ugly scenes.  There are some scenes that were hard to read, but for the most part I felt the author did spare us the raw details.  Sara Gruen knows how to write rich details in such a way that the circus jumped off the pages.  I felt like I was there surround by the sounds and smells of the circus.  I loved the characters and Rosie the elephant was the show stopper.  It was a pleasure reading this story and a huge plus for me that it had a happy ending. 
This was a delightful book. I would have never thought a story set in the 30's about a 20year old man who runs away and joins the circus would have kept me interested. This book did. It was nice to get an understanding about how life would have been back then for Circus-folk. I took for granted for many years how a show is produced. It was so descriptive that I could hear the circus music playing.There was a few boring spots, but when the book picks up the tempo, it makes up for the few boring parts. Also I didn't like how the prolog made it seem like Marlena murdered August, when it turns out to be Rosie the Elephant. That was the books Far-fetched moment. The Kindle Version was for some reason, hard to read. They would have 1 word a page. Not sure why. The upcoming movie looks like good. I don't see Reese Whiterspoon as Marlena since of the age difference, but I'm sure it will be a great movie. 
This was a pretty easy read and fun. It wasn't a very complicated story line but I would recommend.I am glad it was part of the kindle prime library. 
I enjoyed being transported to another time and place. To a vivid, colorful existence long gone. I admit, I expected this book to be fabulous, what with the hoopla and the fact that I saw it front and center for so long every time I went inside any bookstore. The writing wasn't why I gave it five stars, but the story and the research was impeccable. 
Following a family tragedy, Jacob Jankowski abandons life as a college student, and instead of working as a veterinarian alongside his father, finds himself caring for animals in a traveling circus--the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth. Jacob befriends numerous characters, from the glamorous performer Marlena, to the alcoholic Camel, who works setting up the circus, to the Benzini Brothers' star elephant, Rosie. As he travels between different castes of the circus and across America, Jacob narrates the triumphs and hardships experienced by the people and animals of the Great Depression-era attraction.Interspersed throughout the novel are chapters that introduce the reader to the present-day, nonagenarian Jacob, as he laments his current living arrangement in a nursing home.Despite several graphic descriptions of animal abuse and the cruelty displayed the novel's antagonists, the story is ultimately fun, escapist and sentimental, with an optimistic, if improbable, conclusion. 
This well-reasearched book brought the depression-era railway circus to life. The characters and circus scenes are described in such detail that after reading the book, you feel like you have seen a movie. The nitty gritty reality of circus life does not detract from the magic of the circus. 
Well I can't say anything more then what has already been said about this book.  It is a very good read and I certainly recommend it. 
Water for Elephants captivates the reader with its deeply moving and touching storyline.It is charming,magical.... laced with sadness,humour,joy. The story of a young man who loses everything dear to him in this world and then finds meaning and happiness in the most unexpected and least likely place....a traveling circus. The book really brings to life the spirit and times of a traveling circus(set in the backdrop of the Great Depression). Its many colorful,unique characters vividly bring to life this largly forgotten bygone era.Water for Elephants is simply a pleasure to read.  The only drawback to the book is that there is quite a bit of cursing and several sexually explicit passages that might offend certain readers.If you can overlook or skip these rough spots you will certainly experience great pleasure in reading Water for Elephants. 
Yes, despite disagreeing with my whole book club and from the looks of it, many other amazon reviewers-- I cannot give this book a standing ovation.  I was even reluctant to give it 4 stars-- a high 3 would be more just.  Don't be turned away from this frank begining- I did enjoy the book-- and I can echo the reviewer who noted this as a \"great summer read\"  It is!  And it was painstakinly researched- you can tell- but for me that was part of the problem.  First off a good summer read is not the same to me as a great read. It was quick, painless, entertaining but I was not invested in the characters.  That is a crucial difference for me.  And while I received quite a good history lesson as regards circuses and other depression era details, I felt at the same time I was reading someones writing exercise or assignment.  There is a feeling of the author making sure she includes all that she has learned about good writing.  But read it you shall, as my review will be outweighed by the others, just don't expect more then a \"jolly good time\". 
I liked how the old man told the story of his life. The main character was easy to like. The love between Mar Lena and Jacob was believable. The way the old Jacob bonded to the nurse was nice. Interesting characters with a good storyline. 
This is a perfect combination of the tender innocence and bizarre sophistication of a time when young boys ran off to join the circus.  Loved the weaving of past and present and the character of the young boy who gets drawn into a mess that turns out to be the love and joy of his life. 
I found this book to be between 3 and 4 stars, but closer to a four. The first sentence had a grammatical error, and the descriptions were too involved and wordy, so I was afraid I would be disappointed. I wasn't. It turned out to be a well-written book. Gruen actually took me to the circus world in the early thirties, and I lived it along with Jacob. Not only that, but seeing Jacob in his nineties, gives the reader a new appreciation for the elderly. Although I could have done without the cursing and gritty sex scenes, I still found the book interesting, at times delightful, and well worth the read. 
Water for Elephants is a novel. which is compelling, artfully conceived and written and reaches into fringe areas of human experience, which, when plumbed can furnish discernment of  common interest and experience with characters in those fringe areas..  A good read. 
Jacob Jankowski is a 93-year old man in a nursing home, and very cantankerous. The circus has come to the nursing home residents, and this takes Jacob back in time in the book as he tells his story. The book goes back and forth between the past and present tense.When Jake's parents die unexpectedly in a tragic accident,he is 23-years old and lost now. The house was taken away since unbeknowst to Jake, his parents had been in debt, and the house is taken away, and all because his father couldn't let the animals go hungry. He and Jake were in a veterinary practice together, and now it's all gone. Jake, not knowing what to do, went back to school to finish his final exams. He walks out in the middle of it though, and goes toward the train tracks. He climbs aboard a circus train unknowingly, which is the Benzini Brothers, The Greatest Show on Earth. From then on, his life changes forever.Camel is the older man that takes Jake under his wing, and shows him the ropes more or less. He is given the job of cleaning up after the animals, and later acted as a vet. Jake is introduced to Walter, and at first Walter deeply resents Jake at first, and having to share his quarters with him. But when Jake saves his pet Queenie, the two strike a friendship.The boss, August is a hateful cruel man. When an elephant, Rosie is brought in to the mix, August is absolutely sadistic to that poor animal. Jake saves Rosie from being killed by August more than a few times in the book.And the other part of the story is Marlena, August's sweet wife. Jake falls in love with her almost immediately, and knows that Marlena is miserable with her mentally ill husband. She falls for Jake as well, and when it is discovered that they are sneaking away by August, a horrible disaster strikes, and Jake almost doesn't survive.The book comes to an earth-shattering climax and has quite the ending which is a surprise. 
Water for Elephants was one of those books that was difficult to put down.  The prose flowed very smoothly. The subject of the circus world during the depression was well researched and make accessible to the reader.  It could be read on many levels, but even a surface level was satisfying.My only problem, as with many best sellers, was that the action was in places not very realistic.  This may be a bit picky, but after suffering from a concussion, nobody is ready to climb on top of a moving train and hop between cars, no matter how pumped they are with adrenaline.  Such lapses in credibility hurt an otherwise wonderful novel. 
Loved this highly entertaining story. Very different from all the other rehashed story lines out there. Unique and wonderfully written. 
Water for Elephants is an immensely entertaining, well researched novel.  It's easy to see why this book is so popular.  That said; there are a few short comings, some minor, some more substantial.The research about depression era circus' (not that I profess to be an expert) is excellent and makes a fascinating backdrop to the story.  While the author makes great use of her research, the tone of the novel, particularly the dialogue, is too contemporary to sound authentic.  While this is a fault to some extent, it isn't one that will bother most readers.  In fact, it makes the novel more readable,likely contributing to it's success.  Fans of Faulkner and Steinbeck, of course, may beg to differ.I'm not sure why the author chose to make the novel's principal villain Jewish and allegedly Paranoid Schizophrenic.  The fact that he is Jewish is irrelevant to the plot (aside from the fact that it apparently makes his wife's family more likely to disown her) and his behaviour, while deplorable at times, isn't consistent with Schizophrenia at all.  These may seem like minor points, but they bothered me a little because they play into stereo types and were completely unnecessary.The romance that develops between Jacob and Marlena is predictable and uninspired.  The murder during the stampede is a little too contrived and highly improbable, and the final chapter is a little too sentimental for my tastes.  But despite these grievances, I was won over.The first half of the novel is definitely stronger than the second half.  Gruen's writing style is accessible, entertaining, and often very funny.  Jacob as an old man is cantankerous and vulnerable, and his frustration with growing old is truly heartbreaking.  These `present day' chapters are arguably the strongest in the novel.  While the love story is admittedly unremarkable, it was fascinating to read about life in the circus.  Greun weaves a series of amusing and presumably real (at least according to circus lore) anacdotes into the story.All in all, it isn't hard to see why this novel is a bestseller.  True, the love story is a little flat, but overall, the novel is hard not to like.  Water for Elephants isn't a literary masterpiece, but it's enormously entertaining.  If you are willing to overlook a few faults, it is well worth reading. 
I loved this book!  I found it absorbing, engaging and thoroughly vivid in its portrayal of the colorful world of Depression-era circus life.  I also loved the characterization of this nonagenarian who refused to let ageism stifle him in the nursing home where he resided, instead spinning his tale to his Nurse on her last day with him. 
This book was wonderful.  My wife and I both read it and enjoyed it.  It had a lot of depth. 
It was a very interesting story with true facts within the story line. Anyone who has an adventurous side would like this book. 
This was a good book not one of the best I've read because it was kind of slow to get started. Once I got into the characters and plot it was a really interesting look into circus life not like any other books I've read. 
one of the elements I enjoyed was the switching back and forth of the main character's life as a young and old man; and how he experiences it. Well written with a formidable nemise(s) .  it's difficult to communicate a coherent thought here, being in the middle of an allergy_ induced sneezing fit... 
Tapping into a unique and compelling piece of Americana, Sara Gruen has created an entertaining novel under the big top of the traveling depression-era circus. Cutting in and out of the present, the novel's 90- (or 93-) year-old narrator, Jacob Jankowski, brings us into both his life in a nursing home and his incredible 3 and a half months many years ago as the \"vet\" of the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth. Like Salieri in \"Amadeus,\" Jacob views his past as if happening in the moment, and we are treated to a host of nasty and pathetic as well as complex and individualized characters who live from stop to stop along the rail lines and entertain in towns small and large for the \"rubes.\"Although this set-up is terrific, the love story around which the novel turns is thin and familiar, and the writing, somewhere around page 250, becomes repetitious and uninteresting. Even so, this quick read is well worth the time as an entertainment. I have no doubt, as well, that Hollywood will pick up on this work, as it lends itself completely to a 3-star movie. It's got love, it's got hate, it's got tears, and it's got laughter. And what a field day Hollywood will have with Rosie, the good-hearted Polish pachyderm who cracks open the plot and is nothing but adorable. 
The strength of the book is its narrative flow. I particularly liked the little catch-words that usually connected the \"assisted living\" chapters with the circus chapters. Gruen generally wrote in such connections, and I found them both ingeniously crafted and useful in uniting the narrative.In addition to telling a great story, Gruen gives a remarkably detailed picture of the circus world of the 1930s. I had definitely never heard of a \"cooch tent\" before reading this book, for example, and Gruen's depiction of its solo practitioner is thoughtful, humane, and free of cliches. The ideas of circuses getting booted out of town, of people getting booted off the circus trains, and of entrepreneurs cannibalizing the remnants of failed circuses were also quite fascinating.To the extent that Gruen wanted to make an analogy to the biblical Jacob story by obscurely dropped hints and anagrammed names, I think, however, that she pushed too far. This novel stands nicely on its own without this type of symbolism or metaphor. 
It starts out a little slow but gets better and I ended up really enjoying the book. I would recommend it as a take along book on vacation. 
Our Kindle Book Club gave this book 7 out of 10.  I liked the way Gruen brought a life together and illustrated the ways we gain respect and lose respect.  The history of the Circus life was based on fact, it showed the degree of cruelty toward animals and humans in the desire to make money. There was also a degree of cruelty and lack of respect in the Nursing Home. The love story was nicely developed without becoming the main story.  We loved Jacob he was a good man.  The ending was brilliant, he won! 
A little slow but an overall great love story. No regrets for reading it. Most people I've talked to rave about this book. 
I'm not going to outline the story, I'm going to point out a few flaws in the book and what I liked, to try to help you decide if you should read it for yourself.First, the flaws.  It really doesn't take long to figure out where the story is going.  You can see it coming a mile away.  Second, Ms Gruen is writing the story from a male perspective, but she needs a little more practice.  Jacob seemed like a mama's boy, but I don't think that was her intention, instead it was her inability to really connect to her male character.Despite these minor flaws I found the story engrossing and from my male perspective I didn't think it ever got into 'romance novel' territory.  So guys, it's safe to read.  The trains, boozin' and rough living of a traveling circus in 1931 was very interesting.  The way Gruen shifts the novel from the past to Jacob's current state of living in a nursing home is jarring and makes you feel just like Jacob when he is 90, or 93, you want to get back to the circus. 
This novel is riveting from start to finish. What really surprised me is how well written it is. Water For Elephants is a great book for your book club or for a quiet night reading in bed. 
Well written. Gave additional insight to the living conditions in the early days of the circus. Looking forward to seeing the movie. The book should make a great screen play. 
It was a pretty good story.  Not my usual cup of tea but ok. I would recommend to you very interesting 
Didn't expect to enjoy this as much as I did. Really fascinating characters that had me very absorbed.Excellent story with many unexpected twists & turns. Definitely worthwhile.An ending that will surprise. 
This is a good book about the circus (a comment I never thought I would ever make).  Jacob's story is heartbreakingly sympathetic.  Ms. Gruen's mastery of the circus vocabulary really sets the stage for the plotline.  A remarkable amount of reseach went into writing circus lore.  This is no Barnum and Bailey's Greatest Show on Earth.  This is a downtrodden, edging ever closer to disaster circus run by the same type of people.  I must admit I had to skip anything that resembled animal cruelty (although I am sure it is factual).  My inability to deal with this led to my giving the book only 4 stars.  A reflection on the reviewer more than on the book. 
It took me a long, long time to get into this book.  I kept picking it up, reading a few pages and then putting it down again.  It wasn't terrible, but it didn't really grab me until well after the 100 page mark.  Nevertheless, I did enjoy it and I'm glad I stuck with it.The book jumps backwards and forwards in time from Jacob's life as a vet in a 1930s circus to his life today as a 93 year old in an old folk's home.  Not much happens in the present day chapters and for a while I wondered what they were adding to the book, but the pay off at the end is very satisfying.  While I don't know a lot about circuses in the depression era, my impression was that the book is well researched and certainly it brings that world very vividly to life.  The book is peppered with sepia toned photographs from that era which is a clever touch.Overall a good book and one that is worth sticking with.  I was caught up in the central romance and I very much enjoyed the character that is the elephant, Rosie. 
Had a lot of fun reading this and I fell in love with the characters. I want an elephant for a pet and to visit nursing homes.... 
The title of my review pretty much says it all. This was a very easy, enjoyable read full of characters you can't help but love - and love to hate. There were some inconsistencies in details, but most of them would sail right past the average person and weren't a big deal to me.It is almost always hard for me to initially get into a book, I don't know why, but it is. This book was different, it had my rapt attention from start to finish - though the end was disappointing to me. After chapters of such a great story, I found the almost ridiculous improbability of the ending to be quite out of place. I also could have happily lived without the animal abuse and the unnecessary deaths of Walter & Camel, but the ending sat particularly poorly with me. In addition, the final chapter seemed to bring the previously well paced story to a very abrupt halt that felt all wrong. I enjoyed the rest of the book, however, and feel it's well worth the read. 
I truly enjoyed this book except for the parts detailing animal abuse, but I'm very squeamish.  WFE is a wonderful book and I definately recommend it to everyone. 
The wife and I started reading this book after seeing the movie and were not disappointed. Kept our interest all the way through. Recommend to anyone over the age of 13 (some mature subject matter). Loved the characters especially Rosie. Bound to be a classic. Worth buying the audio book too! 
When I first started hearing the buzz about this book, I politely declined offers  to \"buddy read\" and group discuss. I've never been attracted to all that goes on under the \"big top;\" and, if I didn't want to attend a circus, then why would I want to read about one? The book had the added downfall of an elephant as a main character and while I love animals, I generally don't like to read about them. I thought this book had nothing to offer me . . . and I was very wrong.Reliving his young years right along with 90 year old Jacob Jankowski was a beautiful journey. I normally don't care for the sentimentality inherent in an old narrator looking back on his young days, but I found Water for Elephants didn't use cheap tricks to manipulate the reader's feelings. Instead it had a slow build and satisfying finish - marks of a novel well written. As the old man (Jacob) tells his story, I began to feel all the emotions that he did. By the end, I was fully invested.Gruen brings to life - the Depression era geeks and freaks of the circus with generous but not overdone descriptions.  I became so engrossed in that world that it was jarring to come back to reality when I closed the book. The love triangle between man, woman and beast was a beautiful thing and the ending for me came far too soon.I highly recommend Water for Elephants for 16+ and for anyone who enjoys a beautiful love story and being transported to a different day and age. 
I really liked reading about the history of the circus. I loved the images and Sara Gruen knew how to vividly describe something. It's definitely worth reading. 
I dont need to go into too much detail, as most of the reviews here have covered the plot.  I downloaded this on my kindle app during a horrendous layover at the airport, and it was nice read that kept my interest.  For some reason this book reminds me of Mitch Albom, in the style it was written and the flashbacks.  Looking forward to the movie, as I had envisioned the main character Marlena to look very similar to Reese Witherspoon during my read.  Pictures kept the chapters interesting as well. 
I'd probably never have picked up this book on my own, but it was chosen by a book club I've been coerced into joining.  It was an enjoyable book and very quick to read.  It's the story of a young man who accidently joins a mangy circus during the depression following a personal tragedy, and grows up in the process.  The background of the circus, particularly at this time in recent history, was vivid and fascinating, and it would be worth reading the book for that alone. 
Sara Gruen kept me reading.  Her circus research paid off. The characters and the circus life were credible.  What was not credible for me was the ending.  Idealistic yes, but not credible!  I also thought Gruen jammed a lot of information into the last couple of chapters.  I would have liked the storyline in the last few chapters to have been developed more in the previous chapters. The ending was disappointing for me. 
This is about a young man lost a down time of now family, no work but finds a Circus and gets on by watering the elephants, Not fitting in but still clinging on.  Fell in love with someone he could not have, finally wins the love, but looses frightening friendship with the crazy Ringmaster, and manager of the Circus.  We go through the hard times of the circus money not knowing what comes next and everyone is Leary of everyone.  At the End he learns he had a great life even as strange as it was. It was a good story about the hard time in that timeline and period. 
Although this is a work of fiction, author Sara Gruen did extensive research into the circus world during the Depression years.  She weaves some real-life incidents into the story of Jacob Jankowski, a beloved only son who is well on his way to becoming a veterinarian.  Shortly before he is due to graduate, his parents are killed in a car accident and he is left penniless.  He accidentally climbs on a circus train and his fate is then sealed.  Despite the fact that he has not finished his veterinary training, he is taken on as a circus vet.  The story is told by Jacob when he is 90 or 93 (he can't remember which) and is waiting for his family to come and take him to the cicus.  The book is interesting and creative, and is a very good read. 
This story is a great picture of how our memories affect our present.  Jacob's story from 70 years ago informs his present, and brings us along for the ride.  The writing is beautiful, and his memories are as real to us as they are to him.  The message of loyalty and love shine through, and the details ring true, because of the thorough research.  Read it before seeing the movie, which looks good too. 
For the past few months, I seem to have only been reading thought provoking books.  Some were illuminating, some were disturbing, some made me think about some of my most deeply held beliefs.  All in all - I am very glad I read these books, but as I started into \"Water for Elephants\ I realized that it had been quite a while since I read a book mainly to find out what happens at the end.My dad recommended this book - and I'm glad he did.  It's a wonderful story.  We experience, along with the main character Jacob, two parts of his life.  We travel through the Great Depression with him after he runs away and joins the circus (!) and we also see his current life as a patient/resident of an assisted living center.  Both times of his life were interesting to me.  I know next to nothing about circuses - yet I could almost smell the sawdust and hear the music as I made my way through this tale.Gruen has filled her story with the colorful characters one would expect from a circus troupe.  Beautiful acrobats, tortured clowns, animals with personalities almost as big as their trainers (and sometimes bigger!).  The details are excellently woven in, letting the reader see just enough without blocking one's imagination.  As the story builds towards the climax - I found myself doubting the ending I had been sure would take place.  Gruen creates just enough tension and suspense to keep the reader turning the pages at a brisk pace.I enjoyed, too, the scenes of Jacob in the present day.  All circus aspects aside, the book has some excellent insight into a man who feels as if he has outlived his life...without becoming a man who was finished with living.  His fears of losing his memories and mind, the despair he feels at the sameness of each day, and the appreciation he has for the few delights left in his day to day existence are beautifully crafted.  He may come across as a crotchety old man at times, but the reader, and a few characters whose eyes still see a man instead of an old man, know that not to be true.\"Water for Elephants\" was a very enjoyable story.  It was an interesting and fun book - well researched and well-written.  While I didn't take many notes while reading, it was not for lack of content, but because I didn't want to miss a minute of the story. 
I was practically forced to read this book by my partner, who loved it and would not stop insisting that I had to read it. I offered lots of excuses as I put it off, but the truth is, I couldn't care less about the circus. When I finally gave in and started reading Water for Elephants, I realized on the first page that my apathy for the circus didn't matter.This was a touching, clever, totally unexpected story. It offers a window into how we treat the elderly, animals, and people of a different class, without ever being preachy. There were times when I feared it would become a depressing wallow, but that never happened. The unexpected upswing at the end was particularly satisfying. A great read. 
I am picky. If I am not drawn in by the first few pages I stop reading. I lean towards a combination of mystery, murder and love and this book, though much different from my normal reads, kept me completely enthralled. I would highly recommend! 
A man in a nursing home relives his younger years as a vet for a circus. To this reader, not a very compelling premise, yet once I read the first paragraph I was instantly hooked. By the second chapter, I had grown so attached to the main character that I truly felt for the things that happened to him. The story is told in rich, vivid prose, capturing each character so well that they soon became my friends and enemies, depending on the character. This book addresses a wide range of human experiences in a tasteful manner in which this reader was left in a pensive, awe-struck mood contemplating far more important questions and ideas about human existence. It also needs to be noted that this book is extremely well researched and bases its story around actual happenings in Circus history. 
Great storyline and colorful description. Just loved it. Found myself caring about the characters early on. Enjoyed the historical photographs and the detail about circus life in the 1930s fascinating. 
Great book, I like the way the story moved between the character as an old man and his younger days in the circus.  However, the formatting in this book is so screwy, I'd often have to reread sentences so I could work out what they were saying and that really pulled me out of the story.  There were multiple instances of missing spaces between words and paragraph breaks in the middle of a sentence.  Did the publisher even have someone proofread the ebook version? 
And man in a nursing home tells his life story from the past and now in the present. Most of this read is sad but reality to this man. Even his present life seems sad.Talks about his life adventure as he embarks on a traveling circus company that travels by train.If you are sensitive to animal cruelty,  beware as some of this book has exposure to this matter.Had a great ending. It was written well. 
This book was a quick read, and I thought it was very interesting. The reader gets a close up view of the inner workings of the circus, the performers, animal caretakers, etc, mixed in with a love story of sorts. However, even though the book was good, it was not great. It's not one I'd want to keep, or read again. The author introduced too many characters too quickly, and only after reading on for awhile do you sort them out. I didn't really come to love any of the characters enough to care much about what happened to them. The plot seemed weak, character development weak. I liked the HBO series Carnivale, and although this is also a circus book, it was slightly disappointing to me. 
I bought this book because I ran out of things to read. I wandered around the store and noticed how much display this book was given to. I purchased it solely based on its popularity.I started reading it and had a bit of a hard time moving forward. English is not my native tongue and all the circus talk really made my head spin. I took a short break and finished an easy read and then resumed this book. I am glad I did.I felt very engaged after 1/3 of the book when most of the characters started to build and show their individual qualities. As the book went on, I felt I was also living in this circus train and witnessing all the activities.My heart definitely melted when they acquired Rosie, the elephant and at the same time, I started loathing the character August for abusing the elephant so much. In addition to that, the performer Walter/Kinko also transformed into this loving person that looked out after others.About half way through the book, I think almost all readers wanted nothing more than Jacob and Marlena being together and the death of August and Uncle Al. One thing I do believe a good author offers is the connection between the readers and the characters and I definitely felt that engagement with some of them and my heart ached at times as the story continued.I am not sure if I am a big fan of the Old Jacob. Not that it is bad but I really just did not quite get why it was important to keep his voice in. I did not see how old Jacob has contributed to the book and I think it could do without.Overall, I enjoyed the book so much and I was very happy to have resumed and finished it. It is a book that broadens your mind and showers you with all the circus knowledge. A fun and great read! 
Book has been extensively reviewed, with detailed plot descriptions, and also made into a movie.  It was an enjoyable read that captures the essence of the 30's beautifully.  The characters were compelling, and memorable, making their struggles something the reader gets on board for very quickly.  I do not wish to reveal any plot points, but I was left with a few unanswered questions with respect to the main character, and why his relationship with his children in his later years seemed so distant. 
At times the story can be sad but overall the resiliance of the main characters makes it a story you'll think about for a few days when you are done. You'll never see a circus the same way again. 
This is a good book that keeps you interested through the whole thing. The characters are developed nicely and it has a great ending 
I enjoyed this book. It's not going to take great intelligence to get through (or offer much of a challenge), but it was an easy fun read. 
This was a great, easy read. I'll read it again eventually. The author paints this story in such a way that I enjoyed the visions in my mind as each scene unfolded. The characters are grandly unique. Enjoy! 
On the recommendation of some co-workers, I read this book.  This was a great story about a traveling circus.  I probably read this in less than a week.  Everyone I know who has read it really enjoyed it.  The only thing I didn't like was the unbelievable ending.  Maybe I set my standards too high, but I just did not like it. 
I read this book from cover to cover, and I'm glad I did.  But I thought it was very sad, because of the old man in the nursing home narrating the book, because of the animal abuse to the elephant and other species, and because of the spousal abuse to the elephant rider.  Oh, there were elements of humor, friendship, love, and happiness.  The ending was good as well as unexpected.  Still, if I had to describe this book in just one word, it would be \"sad.\" 
Easy reading and interesting story.  Never saw the movie but saw trailer and it seemed very interesting.  Will watch movie 
This book was great.  I liked it way more than the movie.  It is gripping and well written. Definitely would recommend it! 
I saw the movie so I had to read the book and the movie is pretty accurate with the book pretty detailed into the circus life I liked it alot and would probably read it again 
Better than the movie with all the extra context. I enjoyed this book as an easy fluff read. It wasn't something I couldn't put down, but was a good book. 
Loved it! Absolutely loved it! The story was sweet, complicated and funny at times and it didn't leave me hanging. The story was completed and I love that! So many books leave you without finishing what was started and I liked that this one didn't. You find out exactly where the characters end up. I gave it 4 stars instead of 5 because I could've done without the nursing home flashbacks, and I felt that the elderly Jacob's personality didn't match the younger Jacob's personality. At times i wished the whole book was set in the circus days, but then I feel like the reader wouldn't have gotten the sense of closer that comes with knowing where the character ends up in life.Overall, a wonderful story! I highly recommend it, and hope the movie doesn't ruin it. 
Ninety-year old Jacob lives in a nursing home where he spends most days parked in the hallway, waiting for Sundays when a visitor comes.  He's excited because a traveling circus has set up next door and he can't wait to go.  He flashes back to his youth during the Depression, when he was penniless and joined a third-rate circus as an almost-qualified vet.  There, he fell in love with Marlena, the beautiful star horsewoman.  Unfortunately, his boss was her brutish husband.I absolutely loved this book.  It contrasts the misery of being old and helpless with the non-stop action of life \"on the show,\" though that certainly had its share of misery, too.  The pathetic circus Jacob joined was full of lively characters, some kindly, others cruel, and Jacob was forced to grow from naive youth to courageous man.  There were many pages that reduced me to sobs, especially those detailing the agonizing despair of some nursing home residents and some instances of animal cruelty at the circus.I would have given this book five stars, but I didn't like that it was written in the first person (which immediately takes away some suspense as to the future of the narrator), and it was written entirely in the present tense which struck me as awkward.  The story itself is engaging, exciting, touching, and rewarding.  Highly recommended. 
Another book that kept me up into way too late each night.  I would have loved to read more historical info behind the circus and its hype in the 1920s and 30s.  This was an amazing book and I loved how it was told from present day in the eyes of someone who had lived it. 
As I usually do I read the book first and then saw the movie. Both were great but like all the movie changed some things. Both were good but sometimes I just wish they wouldn't change the movie. 
This book was enchanting.  Immediately you become under it's spell from the first words. The mystery, history, action, and love stories of the circus all wrapped up in one.The story is about Jacob Jankowski, the circus vet.  Under tragic circumstances, he joins a second rated circus and becomes entangled into all their lives, whether he wants to or not.  Bouncing between his current status, which is in a nursing home at the age of 93 or 99 (he's not sure) and his circus life, there is a mystery deep in the heart of it. 
I saw this book in the bookstore and it sounded very interesting so I got it out of the library. I wasn't disappointed. It was very easy to read and flowed nicely. Very interesting and quirky characters which I liked. Rosie the elephant was a great character. I agree with one of the other reviewers who compared the book to Sophies Choice. I thought the same thing when we meet the ringmaster. I really enjoyed the book but I was disappointed that there were a couple of parts that were unnecessarily crude (as opposed to necessarily crude?). It's like the female writer of the book had to prove that she could be as crude as any man. Other than that, it was one of my favourite books this year. 
I loved the story but disliked how explicit it was in places. Call me old fashioned, but not to my taste, especially in the printed word. If that does not bother you, you will love the book. 
I listened to Water for Elephants as an audiobook.  The portrayal of old man Jacob by John Randolph Jones was spot on.  The enactment of the young Jacob by David LeDoux was good, but a little bit monotonous in tone.  He did do a good job on the other characters' voices, making them sound different from Jacob.  The book was well-written, with excellent characters who all had distinct personalities, and dialogue that rang true.  I bought the depression era plight of a young veterinary student doubly shocked at losing his parents and then their home.  This made a credible segue to his becoming the veterinarian for the Benzini Brothers circus.  Ms. Gruen does a believable portrayal of the Depression era, the working class, and the animals in the menagerie.  The story flows well, but is a bit melodramatic to my taste, in spots.  The love story between Jacob and Marlena works, but is a little long in development.  At first I did not see the relevance of the old Jacob interludes in the story, but they did lead to a sweet and appropriate ending to the book.I have one issue which maybe someone could answer.  I don't understand the relationship of the prologue to the rest of the book.  The text of the prologue duplicates the climactic event of the book itself, yet has a completely different outcome, and one that contradicts what happened \"in real life\".  I don't understand why there should be such a contradiction, and it wasn't explained by something like \"and then I woke up from the dream\".  Instead, the prologue merely ends with \"in 70 years I never told a single soul\" or something like this.  So why do we have a difference of fact between two parts of the book?  It is jarring and strange.  I also note that in the movie, the character, Uncle Al, was deleted when the screenplay was written. 
I found  the subject  matter of circus trains very interesting. Along with the difficult and dangerous life the performers and workers had. 
Good read for when you are entertaining yourself on a rainy day.  Enjoyed the book more so than the movie. 
Never having been particularly interested in all things circus-y, I put this book back on the bookstore shelf more than once. But an Amazon review of another, quite unrelated novel referenced this book so I picked up a copy. Really glad I did. This is a well-paced novel that doesn't fall into the trap of doubling as a documentary on the early twentieth century circus trade. It is engaging, romantic, with sufficient drama and excitement to keep the pages turning over well into the night. Maybe at times a little cute, but a solid four-star effort. 
Alternating between times, prisoned in a nursing home, 90-something year old Jacob recalled his life in the circus.Life pretty much changed overnight for Jacob Jankowski.  Jacob dropped out of veterinary school.  He just had to take the last test before graduating.  However, his parents' sudden death changed all that.  Now, Jacob could have gone back and finished the test.  However, he felt guilty once he learned that there were no money left from his parents because they spent all they had to finance Jacob's schooling.By some strange turns of events, Jacob found himself riding with a traveling circus, one that aimed to be better than the Ringling Bros.  It's here that Jacob is made the circus veterinarian over the circus' animals.  However, Jacob is falling for the Jekyll/Hyde-ish ringmaster's wife.I don't know if it was a reading fluke or not but I just couldn't get into the book at the beginning.  I wanted to like the book because my friends were telling me how great it was.  I just couldn't get into it.  After about 100 pages and days later, it finally picked up for me.Overall, the story was interesting as it was something that you don't see often.  Plus, archived pictures at the end of some chapters made the book even more interesting.  I became so engrossed in the story that it looked like Jacob's adventures with the circus spanned over years when it actually spanned over weeks.  So, it was a good read but not one of my favorites. 
I like this book. To read through about the depression era and about the lives of people going through it, trying to earn a living, trying to survive is amazing to me. The train traveling circus of the day had to try, really try to also just survive. And the bittersweet love story that is entertwined into this story, I think, is beautiful. Thanks Amazon. 
The book was well researched and had an interesting plot.  I would recommend it. 
The book was very well written and different from most books I have read. I would recommend it! 
I had a good time reading this book even if it wasn't one of the best I read. The story is nice and entertaining. 
Water for Elephants is the first book in a long time to allow a reader to savor the pages while thirst for the next.  What more could you want out of a book???THe story revolves around the main character, Jacob Jankowski, and a part of his young adulthood.  During this period of time, Jacob must fend for himself as he migrated from what he believed would be a promised and lucrative life to a life of uncertainly and of poverty.Jacob stumbles into a lifestyle within and revolving around work in a traveling circus during the Great Depression era in the United States.Sara Gruen's writing brings alive every event and character very vividly; the setting simply demands only her very apt and transporting descriptions.Sara Gruen does transport the reader; the captivating read that feels as if you are just plunked down in the middle of Jacob's life.  The reader is absolutely the quintessential \"fly on the wall\".We not only observe but feel Jacob's pain, struggles, anxiety, happiness, discomfort, and grief.  She has managed to include the reader in her words.I enjoyed my role as a reader and can only hope that Gruen's other titles enable me to be transported yet again to another world that only Gruen can create. 
Was glad that I read this way before all they hype and the movie.  The &#34;behind the scenes&#34; of the circus life was fascinating reading.  To me the love story was a back drop to the sordid story of the circus. 
I've been seeing this book for years at book stores and amazon website but for some reason I wasn't interested. The idea of a novel that takes place in a circus didn't seem exciting to me. Then, the kindle version of the book is offered with a great price and I reluctantly buy it and even more reluctantly read it. What a surprise... I really enjoyed it and couldn't put it down. The main character, Jacob, is brilliant especially at old age. I learned a lot about circus life and people. I thought the ending was marvelous. Now, I have to watch the movie and see how it compares to the novel. Very enjoyable read and highly recommended. 
\"Water For Elephants\" paints a runaway's story of joining the circus, interspersed with an old man's sad realities.  Bringing to life colorful characters that abound in the time of the train circus, Gruen strikes a balance between the despondency of the 1930s and the timelessness of hope and longing, both in the past and present.  An easy coming-of-age  must-read to curl up by the fire with!(I can't say I'm surprised that the book is being turned into a movie, though it'll be interesting to see if the movie manages to capture the poignancy of the old man's recollections...) 
I had no desire whatsoever to read this book until I saw a trailer for the movie. The tailer caught my eye and since books are always better then the movie I took a chance and found that I thought it was a great story. The story felt real. It's a very believeable read and I liked that it wasn't sugar coated. It held my interest and taught me a lot about circus life in that time period. The ending completely caught me off guard. Water for Elephants is a story that will stay with me forever. I highly recommend it to anyone who enjoys reading! 
GOOD STORY, NOT GREAT BUT FUN TO READ.  I HAD HEARD IT WAS SO GREAT....SO WAS A BIT DISAPPOINTED.  BUT GLAD I READ THE BOOK 
This author did his research, blending the history of the american circus with his fictional characters.  I enjoyed this book. 
This is a very good book. It may be slightly over hyped, but it certainly deserves of most of the praise it's receiving. Water for Elephants is a moving tale about circus life during the depression era with quirky characters and complex emotions underlying the character's actions. It's uniquely told from the perspective of one character at two different stages of his life; Jacob at 20 and again when he was 93 and living in a nursing home. The story moves seamlessly between these two timelines and although I was more intrigued by the introspective old Jacob, the complexity and volatility of young Jacob also captured my attention, just on a different more concrete level. The book touches on what's important at different phases of life. The story is sweet, tragic and entertaining and the emotions that surface range from sad and lonely to happy and in love. In short, the story is haunting and brings to light the strong bond that develops between man and animal and shows the true meaning of friendship. An excellent selection for those who enjoy a good character driven story. 
It took me a couple of chapters to get into this book.  Having borrowed the book at the recommendation of a friend, I had no preconceptions.  I started reading and wondered if it was a dreary book about life in a nursing facility. When my friend asked about returning the book, I ordered an audio version so that I would not have to admit I could not get interested in the story.  I can almost always get through an audio book on my commutes to work.  The book quickly became an engrossing story.  I was cheering for the animals!  The mal treatment some of them received was very hard listening.  The one criticism I had, was Jacob's naivete.  Could he not figure out he was putting his friend's, and his own life, in danger?  I would have found him more attractive had he been more discerning.  As it was, I would not have been surprised had Marlena really not been attracted to him.  Also, I wondered if a talented circus performer such as Marlena was, would not have had to start very young instead of at the age of 17 when she left home and married August.  The ending?  for the circus it was terrific!!  But for Jacob at 93... found it less than realistic! 
Very good book about a different subject but takes a little time to get into. I would read it again! 
Gruen has such an elegant and inviting writing style that you can't help but get sucked into this story from the get-go. While I loved how she developed her characters (especially old-man Jacob), the ending was weak and didn't live up to the build-up throughout the book. 
This book was very good. I liked reading from both ages of the main character. The ending was more of a surprise since from the first page I thought it would end completely different!!! 
I wanted to read the book before I saw the movie. Now that I have, I'm not sure the movie would do it justice. It took place in a time I couldn't imagine and they lived a life I know nothing about. It was really interesting. 
Picked up this book to read based on the fact it was a local Book Club's Selection.  Immediately was drawn into it and read it in a day.  Book is 331 pages and for me it read quickly.My opinion the book is that it is thought provoking and also educational - communicated through the day to day thoughts of a man now facing the day to day realities and drawbacks of living in an \"Assisted Living\" facility.Gruen is able to effectively weave a lot of bittersweet humor into her character and has also imparted quite a bit of history of the period of the Great Depression and also circus life.Read thru the ratings that were less than 3 star - guess it goes to show we all have different tastes.  The reviewer who stessed going back to the old classics made me remember dry, horrible, rambling selections that to this day I do not value.Water for Elephants goes beyond boy meets girl, falls in love with girl, walks into the sunset hand in hand.  The interjection of the character in  his later years keeps the book flowing and gives the reader a chance to develop empathy for the main character.The end is upbeat - seems a bit unbelievable - but then again it keeps the \"spark\" of the book burning bright.Looking forward to more reading from Sara Gruen. 
I didn't not expect to really enjoy it since I'd  held off reading it for a while.  however the characters' stories and interactions capture your attention. 
i have to start by saying that this is not the type of book that i normally would have picked up. but i've been reading almost nothing but tom robbins, chuck palahniuk (ak on the spelling, author of fight club) and christopher moore for awhile, and needed to get out of it. i was stuck in a rut. so at borders, i hounded all the employees for their book recomendations, and one suggested this book. it looked interesting, started out ok, so i bought it.it took me awhile to get around to it, but i'm glad i did. normally it would have taken about 2 lunch break weeks to finish it (it's frequently the only time i get to read) but i just had to take it home and finish over the weekend. i really enjoyed the story and tone, the sort of reminiscent theme, and the detail that went into the book.it really was a good read. i'm now interested in reading more on the circuis now, in general. at least the historical aspects. 
I didn't know what to expect from this one but since there was so much to do I decided to give it a whirl. I'm glad I did. Its the story of a 97 year old man who has flashbacks to his life in the circus during the depression. Those were rough times. It's about how hard things were, but also the good things. The story flashes back & forth between the present, in a nursing home and the circus days. 
Sometimes, reading a book, you wonder about editorial decisions, mostly to do with scenes or plot twists/direction that just do not belong. With this book, I would not have included the photographs that begin each chapter. I thought the writer was doing a more than adequate job in her descriptions and thought the photos detracted. Also, do not need the author's note at end. Don't remind us this was fiction, created and crafted; we want to shut the book and remember the story. 
Great book, really sucks you into the story and for feel for this band of characters. The movie does not do it justice. 
Read this because my granddaughter raved about the movie.  Really liked the book, it's a good story.  Now I need to see the movie. 
This is an excellent story.  It's well written and well researched.  If you want to read a good book, grab a cup of coffee and pull up a comfy chair.  Get ready to go back in time and enjoy the characters. Fall in love. 
This was an excellent book. Both because of its fascinating glimpse into circus life in the 1930's as well as for its wonderful description of life for someone who is elderly and stuck in a nursing home when his body is frail but his mind and desire for independence is still strong. I loved the ending as well; very fitting. 
The various characters made this story interesting.  Each brought a part of every day life.  Some were misjudged.  I did not like the fact that one could not trust anyone well unless he/she were very well acquainted with each person.  the story was fascinating and circus life was presented as hard work, low pay, and no home for many.  I would recommend this book to imaginative spirits, and to those who trust and judge too easily and quickly.  There were some tender parts that were a relief from all the cheating. 
This is a sometimes gritty, sometimes heart-wrenching story of a man who ran away and joined the circus.  The story is told through the mind of Jacob, a nonogenarian (yes, I had to look that up) resident of a nursing home, who was orphaned his last week of veterinary school.  Jacob discovers that his parents, struggling along with everyone else through the end of the Great Depression, had impoverished themselves to keep him in college.  Broke himself, and unable to focus enough to complete his exams, he desperately jumps a train and runs away from his life.The train he jumps happens to belong to The Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth.  Barely avoiding getting thrown off the train, he is befriended by a few of the circus workers, and becomes the veterinarian for the show's menagerie of exotic animals.This look behind the scenes of the train circuses is enough in itself to carry the book.  Sara Gruen's ability to place herself behind the eyes of a 93 (or is it 90?) year-old man is gripping.  The two combined give the story a depth that makes you want to keep turning the pages.The flaws in the story are not enough to make it founder but just enough to keep this from being a five-star read.  In particular, Jacob's ability to turn his back when those he loves are endangered is at odds with what we see of his nature at other times.  The encapsulated explanations for his behavior notwithstanding, his integrity is deeply flawed in a manner that can't be explained away, and yet the author ignores it.  We are thus left cheated from seeing not just how Jacob affects the circus, but how deeply the circus affects Jacob. 
I had numerous kin, friends and co-workers tell me to read Sara Gruen's Water for Elephants.  I told each person that as soon as I obtain the opportunity I would read the novel.  The narrator, Jacob, did an eminent job guiding the reader.  Personally I didn't feel everything he was going through, but I was able to help justify his actions.  For instance when he finally yelled at August or when he consummated his love for Marlena.  What intrigued me most about Gruen's writing was her ability to tie the ninety year old Jacob to the circus Jacob.  I was thrilled how she gave Jacob a sense of eudemonia when the book concluded.  Jacob finished up where he began; he ended up right where he wanted to be.  On a scale of 1-10 I would give this book a 9.  All in all when you read it you won't be disappointed. 
Water for elephants was certainly an entertaining read, but I have  read better. It did help to open my eyes to the life of circus performers in the 1920's. This was very well projected throughout the entire book, and it was easy to tell that the author was very well educated on the topic. I do think however that there should be a warning about the sexual content within the book. I would only recommend it for mature readers. I would recommend this book if you have a lot of time to enjoy the context in which it was written. 
This book was an enjoyable read.  It was an unusual story and hard to get into from the first few pages.  Persevering I found it a good read.  I don't think I could watch the movie if they included the abuse to the elephant. 
This book was recommended to me by a few good friends and since there was a movie coming out as well, I was prompted to read it. It is the perfect book if you need a light read and to just get lost in another world for a little while. The story has great depth and imagination. It is filled with colorful emotions and characters. It is great for any reader seeking a dark, winding tale with a unique love story. 
I had such a love hate relationship with this book. I struggled in the beginning that I even wanted to read it, but with all the hype and the movie coming out I figured I should trudge on. Overall, I'm glad I did. After a certain part there really are no dull moments, and lots of plot twists. The writing and character development is phenomenal, although there were a lot of graphic parts that I thought could've been left out and made me not want to continue sometimes (and I'm pretty tough). Towards the end I was flying through it and cannot wait to see how they pull off the movie! 
Interesting details about circus life but you can pretty much guess what is going to happen. It's a decent enough book for a summer read, not to heavy. Not the best book for a deep discussion but enjoyed by many so may work well for book club. 
The most interesting thing about this book for me was getting a look into how circus workers, performers, animals, etc. live day to day life traveling on a circus train going from town to town and performing multiple shows in each town. At times the story did drag a bit for me. As others have said, I feel the love story involved was not very well developed. It is clear from the beginning who the main character's love interest is and will be, but it doesn't develop a whole lot before they are hitting the sheets. I also feel some parts of the book were a little rushed and could have been explained a little more with more detail. Overall, I did enjoy reading this book. I learned a lot about how circus life was in the 1930's. You can tell the author did a lot of research for this book as far as details of the circus and circus life goes. I also enjoyed the fact that the book also takes you into the main character's later life and tells the story as if he is remembering and looking back on it all. The book also has a fairly good ending. 
At the time of this review there are over 1,700 reviews posted so I won't bother to sum up the story but just my opinion of the book.I thought the book was simple to read, an interesting story and engaging characters.Even though this novel is not perfect and a standard \"boy meets girl\" story with a charming setting, the descriptions are colorful and the characters are a variety of misfits; but somehow it all works and comes together very nicely for an entertaining and well paced read.Granted, the book is not going to be put on a shrine of the scholarly literary Olympus, but to me this book felt as if I was reading a fairytale - and I tremendously enjoyed it. 
Two parallel stories where classical human principles and miseries collide. Very good character development and a nice ending to wraps things up. Very gripping, I finished in less than a couple of days 
I spent most of this book wondering why Gruen chose to intersperse her primary story of a young man who found himself thrust into the circus life in 1931 with the musings of that same man at the age of 93.  The story of how Jacob came to be in the circus and what happened to him there seemed like enough to me, and Jacob's aged voice seemed unnecessary.  At the end of the book, though, I realized why she gave us both perspectives, and could hardly argue with her narrative device, as the closure it provides works so well. 
From the very first paragraph, this author grabs our attention, and awakens every sense...touch, smells, descriptions that have us see every nuance of the scene before us, as if we were standing next to the hero. Besides, she surprises us with unexpected descriptions that are raw, real and gutsy. For eg., I left there \"stiff all over.\"Wonderful reading, I need to go to bed earlier so I can read more of this wonderful book, before sleep o'ertakes me. 
I enjoyed reading this book and recommend to read it. It was fast reading and full of surprises. It really met my expectations. 
Were it not for the tantalizing action captured in the prologue, I might not have read past page 7 of this book. Two tales are interwoven, one of the writer as a 93-year-old in a present day nursing home, the other of the writer as a 24-year-old runaway, in the 1930's, who accidentally joins a circus.The old man's story begins the book and the accurate portrayal of the patronizing, impersonal, falsely cheerful care that the elderly often receive is what nearly stopped me from reading further. I did NOT want to read about the miseries of life in nursing homes, even if the story was amusing and well told. Luckily for me the prologue, the excellence of the writing and, I admit, even the old man's story, kept me reading and let me get past the depressing details of the limited life of a 93 year old to enjoy the rest of the book.If you love animals and or circuses you will be swept up in this book. It is a charming, suspenseful, action-filled, violent, sexy, historically genuine, loving, soft-hearted, heart-breaking, and heart-warming book. I really enjoyed and recommend it. 
It was with some reluctance that I purchased this book.  I'm more of a character-driven reader than a plot-driven one. Additionally, I don't especially like \"adventure\" stories. I was pleasantly surprised since Jacob was such a terrific character, and any adventure he encountered was worth reading.  This book certainly entertains -- and, it moves so fast. Also, the pictures of real circus life added to the story. Two people are currently waiting for this.  I trust that they'll have as good a read/ride as I did.  Loved Gruen's writing & expect to be reading more of her books. 
This book is nice. It gives you a feel on how live was during the depression and also a great insight of the workings of a circus in the 30s. I enjoyed this book a lot. The characters are great and I am looking forward to read more books by this author. 
Truly a captivating story. Rich in history of the early days of circuses. She also captures the essence of the elderly and how they are often treated. Would recommend this book. 
Jacob Jankowski is spending the final years of his life in a nursing home.  Often ornery and ill-behaved, he remembers the past, when he ran away to join the circus during the Great Depression.  As Jacob turned twenty-one he was in his final year as a veterinarian at Cornell University.  Unexpectedly, his parents died in a car crash, turning his world upside down.  Unable to concentrate, he walks out of his final examines, only to find himself jumping a circus train.  Lacking a veterinarian, the Benzini Brothers circus is quick to utilize his talents.  In between taking care of the myriad of animals he falls in love with Marlena, a circus performer.  Marlena's husband, August, is a paranoid schizophrenic, who flies into bouts of madness and brutality.This book was fun and engaging.  Yet, it had its dark moments and suspenseful periods which kept the plot interesting.  Gruen researched the area of circus life in great detail and transfers the reader to a different time and place.  Overall, I give this book a 4 out of 5. 
I bought this book, read about 3 chapters, but then got another book..the 3rd in a series that I'd read the 1st 2 of.  Decided to finish that series, but am anxious to get back to Water For Elephants. I like what I've read so far, and many friends have told me they liked it and think I will too. 
This book was easy to read and very interesting.  It had a circus-like atmosphere in it's storytelling and enlightened me to that world.I recommend it for those who are looking for fun entertainment with interesting, different characters. 
I enjoyed the book rather than the movie. The author well compared both Jacob in youth and in his ninty. Also, the book was well described the story, and I could grasp the episodes and the feelings of characters. One thing that did not satisfy me was that both movie and the book had less scenes that described Jacob with Marlena and the elephant Rosie. I wanted them together a lot. 
\"Water for Elephants\" was recommended by an animal loving friend with the comments that the book was a must read.  The story is set during the 1930's depression and takes place primarily on a traveling circus train.  Jacob Jankowski, recently orphaned, is hired as the veterinarian for the circus. Through Jacob's gaze, we are introduced to the inner workings of the greatest show on earth as proclaimed by Uncle Al, owner of the Benzini Brothers circus.  We learn of the work required to roll out and pick up a circus as well as the cruelty with which the men charged with this work are treated.  While the animals, performances and circus atmosphere are well rendered by the author I found the class structure created within the traveling circus of particular interest; a structure whereby the lowest members of the circus team may be guaranteed a meal but not necessarily a wage or a life.  Equally interesting to me is the depiction of geriatric care, familial and professional, afforded Jacob during his twilight years.  Gruen did an excellent job of capturing the desolation of aging without the care and proximity of your family.\"Water for Elephants\" is a well crafted tale of adventure, love and murder.  The characters are memorable and the language easily accessible and imagistic.  This is an entertaining read but I must admit it dispelled any quixotic notions that I associate with running off with the circus; that was hard and dangerous work then. You were luck if you left the show with your life and even luckier if you left with a life.  For this reader, It'll be enough to watch the next circus that comes to town and remember the men and women that whose hard work made it possible then and keeps the show on the road now. Enjoy! 
Not sure how to sum this up or it my title fits the bill, Yet I truly enjoyed the life story of an old man. Sad how people are treated and I am sure alot was true. Enjoyable reading 
Loved the characters and plot and really loved the ending.  Not a fan of the graphic animal torture, though I understand it was historical and did happen.  If you're not sensitive, it won't bother you. 
This book popped up on my Amazon recommend list, initally i was reluctant when i picked it up.  but, i was gripped and read it in a flash..  love, drama, circus politics, all very intresting..  the reviews here are on the money, i concur.. 
So enjoyed this book!  Seemed to start out a little slow, but such a great book.in the end!  I cried for Rosie, Camel and Walter more than I did for anybody else!  Great read! 
I read this book about a year ago and was truly amazed with the imagery and visions the author, Sara Gruen, managed to portray. Written as a historical novel, it reminded me very much of Nicholas Spark's The Notebook, with the main character being an elderly man and telling the story through memories of his youth.Preparing to take his final exams as a veterinary student at university, Jacob Jankowski receives some shocking news about his family which sends his future into a spin. Abandoning his exams, he leaves school and hops on board a train in the middle of the night. This train is home to a travelling circus, and it's through the characters he meets there that he becomes a vet to the animals on board and enters a world he never imagined. He quickly becomes part of the family and is soon caught up in a love triangle with the beautiful Marlena, a circus performer who holds a particular soft spot for the star of the show, an intelligent and lovable elephant, Rosie.The novel is so beautifully written and will touch the hearts of all animal lovers. Sara Gruen really did her research into the circus era and the book is even peppered with images of old circus photographs. Definitely worth a read!See more book reviews at Storybook Love Affair - [...] 
I have to say that I was skeptical about reading this book.  A friend of mine talked me into downloading it onto my Kindle...and well...I finished the book in two days.  I wasn't sure about reading about a circus, but it is also a bit of a love story (nothing intense).  I found the book easy to read and I loved the fact that the book goes back to the past and then to the present with the main character (an older man maybe ninety or ninety three) in a nursing home with a sense of humor. I will recommend this book to my friends. 
I admit that I didn't pay much attention to this book until I saw the commercials for the movie (yes, I am one of \"those\" people).  I knew I would eventually see the movie so I looked up the book to see what it was about.  When I read the many positive reviews, I figured I should go ahead and read it before I saw the movie.  When the Kindle edition dropped to $4.17, I figured I wouldn't be out much money.  I am very happy I did.The story flowed very well and the writing was easy and accessible without seeming juvenile.  I found myself drawn to the older Jacob. Right out of high school, I worked at an assisted living home while attending college and I was also extremely close to my late grandmother. I thought that the portrayal of an elderly person feeling trapped by the limitations of their failing body (and sometimes their mind) was heart-wrenching yet spot-on. In your heart and your \"inner dialogue\" you don't feel any older than you did 60+ years ago, yet everything about your physical being has changed and the world around you has changed as well.The atmosphere and the feel of the book was wonderful. I felt like I was riding in that train car along with Jacob and Walter.  I felt the hurt that Jacob felt when he was orphaned, confused and lost.  I felt scared and anxious along with them, fearing that their \"stowaway\" in their car would be found.  I felt the elephant's fear and happiness.  I could almost hear the sounds of the circus, smell the peanuts and greasy food.The only thing I wasn't 100% convinced on was the relationship between Jacob and Marlena.  I felt it from Jacob, but not really from Marlena.  I felt like she was a weak character and there were moments I actually wondered if she gravitated towards Jacob because August was so cruel and hard to live with.  That is honestly the only negative thing I can say about this story.I think if you are looking for a real romantic read (like a Nicholas Sparks novel), I wouldn't recommend this. It has moments of romance but I didn't feel that was the main storyline. I got more out of it from the circus standpoint and the old man/young man's life.  I will be interested to see how \"romantic\" they make the movie (I am guessing by the poster, commercials and lead actors that it will be the main point of the movie).  However I will still see it.I do recommend this book.  VERY much worth the time spent reading and worth the price.  Probably 90% better than most current novels out there now. 
I really enjoyed this book. It is uniquely and well written from two perspectives of the same person. You definitely get drawn into the drama of the circus and invested in all of the characters. Sara keeps you wondering what is going to happen next. I do not want to give anything away but I was surprised at the ending!! I would definitely recommend and purchase this book to/for others. 
Absolutly loved this book! Jacob Jankowski is easy to love and provides relatable perspective to situations I could never imagine.  Though it takes place in prohibition/depression era, the vivid characters brighten each moment without breaking the romantic and grand illusions of traveling with the circus. Jacob, in both his twenty-third and ninety-third year, did not disappoint me!Read it and share it with a friend! 
This is a wonderful story! It is all at once funny, heart-breaking, and thought-provoking. I found myself so absorbed in the story that when I had to stop reading in the course of a day I was disoriented for a few minutes before I could deal with my real life. That, to me, is a sign of a great book. I loved how seamlessly the narrative moved between Jacob as an old man of ninety, or ninety-three, and the young Jacob especially. There were no odd stops and starts and no chunks of time missing between past and present. And the end had me flipping back to the beginning to see if I read it right the first time (but in a good way)! Absolutely wonderful!! 
Water for Elephants is one of those books that I've been hearing about ever since it came out. In an age-old storyline, the main character ends up working with a beautiful and charming woman, and the only problem is her cruel but powerful husband - the twist here is that the whole thing is set in a traveling circus. The characters were interesting, the story engaging and not too terribly predictable, but I thought my respect for it suffered from because it had been so highly rated - I find it much easier to read a book without any preconceived notions of how much I will like it. 
I really enjoyed the book. I watched the movie  along time ago and liked it and I finally got  a chance to read the book and it lived up to my expectations. 
I've just finished the book and liked it a great deal. Some of the research which underpins the book was outstanding. Depression era circuses, train circuses as Ms Gruen calls them, being a hobo on the rails, the brain of an elephant and the thread about Jamaican Ginger - all were fascinating - as was the almost seamless blending of the two time periods. Clearly the lady can absorb large quantities of research information and transform that into an excellent novel. She clearly, and obviously, loves animals. Will I buy the two other books listed here on Amazon? I don't think so but I am sure that horse lovers will and should. 
This book moved along. It was never slow, also a good story.I enjoyed the book a lot thank you 
I am never into the 'Oprah's book club' genre type of books, however I saw that a movie was being made of it, read the synopsis and gave it a try. I wasn't disappointed. What an enjoyable read! While the ending was a bit cliche, it was still a very interesting and entertaining book. The author weaving the past with the present really moved the story along and helped gain sympathy for our lead character. I would definitely recommend this book - especially to all those that don't usually appreciate the 'book of the month club' type of books. And even though I'm probably one of the only people I know that is NOT into Rob Pattinson, (LOL!) I would definitely like to see this movie. I read this on my Kindle and wish I had bought it in paperback so I could have shared it. 
The book was very realistic and somewhat sad.  The ending was an unexpected yet pleasant surprise. I would recommend to any reader. 
I had this book in my TBR pile and really wasn't in any sort of hurry to read it. Now, after finishing it, I can't believe I waited so long.This book gives me an in depth account of circus life during the depression and of the lifestyles of those who traveled with it. I learned a lot. I however, got really emotional when aspects of the book dealt with animal cruelty and even human cruelty to each other.This is a must read book. The ending is also a surprise. 
I laughed, cried, got angry, and every other emotion right along with these characters! I wasn't sure at first, but Jill told me to persevere and I am so glad I did. This is definitely a different kind of story with a lot of descriptive scenes and perfectly worded chapters. I was so happy by the end of the story that I didn't even want to get out of the car. I wanted to let it all soak in. Very good! 
This story has a circus, a villain, an adventurer, and a love story. What else could a summer reader wish for? I thoroughly enjoyed this novel. Granted, it's not Dickens, but it is great fun.Jacob's experience as the an old man reminded me so much of the nursing home my mother died in. His experience as a young man reminded me of the stories my father told about the depression, especially riding the \"freights.\"I passed this book along to a woman co-worker, and after she finished it, she said, \"I love this book!\"Sara Gruen did a marvelous job researching train circuses. That alone is worth the price of admission. 
Great book. Slow paced but with enough detail and grace to make it hard to put the book down. Recommended. 
I enjoyed this book although it wasn't quite up to my expectations having been recommended it after finishing a Salmon Rushdie's 'Midnights Children'.  There was certainly plenty of suspense and interest in the story and the author's extensive research is obvious.  There are some great characters in the novel and it has a lovely ending with a twist. 
The book is amazing and well written. I would recommend  it to anyone and even advise skipping the movie. The book is way better. 
I experienced to this book as an audiobook, so my opinion is shaped by that.  Also, I scanned a few 1- and 2-star reviews before I read the book, to see what some people didn't like, so some of my review is addressing others' opinions.First, the narrators for the audio book I thought did a pretty good job. The young Jacob did a wonderful job using varying voices for the various circus people and I forgot they were all spoken by the same person. The old Jacob's voice was great for a crotchety old man, but still clear enough to understand. 4 out of 5 stars for narration.I thought the story overall was good. I did not feel as much of a connection to the characters as I would have liked and that may be due to the \"shallow\" writing that some people have complained about in reviews. I did laugh out loud in the car listening to some of the narration by the \"old Jacob\" though, I thought his character was amusing.I don't claim to know much of anything factual about the early 20th century or life in the circus (then or now) for that matter. With that said, I thought the descriptions of this FICTIONAL circus and recent college graduate veterinarian were nicely done. I felt like I understood what the narrator was talking about and how he was feeling (most of the time).Yes, there was some animal cruelty and there was some sex/masturbation. While I don't particularly enjoy reading about animals being hurt or neglected, I felt that the things they were doing seemed as if they might have been done during that time period due to desperation/ignorance or that was just what everyone else did. As for the sex/masturbation, again, I don't generally enjoy reading those things, but I thought they might have been appropriate for the time and characters.  How else is a little person going to get physical pleasure in a time before \"political correctness\" where his mother SOLD him to the circus to be a circus freak/clown because of his stature?  The sex between the characters was inevitable and if someone is so offended by it that they quit the book, maybe they should go back to reading Dick and Jane (unless you're also offended by the word/name Dick).Overall, I enjoyed the story. Interesting time period, good characters, and good narration from two different perspectives of the same character. I've never read any books about the circus and after reading this one, I might have to find some others. This is the first book I've read by Sara Gruen and I have another book by her \"Ape House\" in the car and ready to listen to later today. 
When this book came out in hardcover, I passed it by.  No interest in reading about circus freaks.  When the book came out in paperback, I passed it by.  Still did not sound interesting.  Three people recommended it to me and then, finally, a friend gave it to me after she finished it.  Still, I waited a month or so before beginning it.  Within the first few chapters, I was intrigued.  I loved the descriptions - created a definite picture in my mind.  I loved the characters - I wanted to know what would happen to them.  Although I thought the end was somewhat predictable, on the whole, I found this a very enjoyable read. 
It is such a pleasure to dive into a book and read wonderful prose.  As a busy busy person who is a reader I found myself stealing moments where ever I could to read this book.  The story held my interest on evey page and I learned alot about the circus, cruelty and class.  Read this book it is delicious. 
This book was engaging and a good read.The story kept me interested & not skipping pages.It was interesting how it flipped from current to past in the chapters.It was my first novel by Sara Gruen. I'd definitely look for others. 
This was an incredible read and a quick read if you want something to captivate you for a trip.  For fictional history it's clear the author did her homework.  The author took many real events and spun them into the journey of a fictional character through a composite circus during the depression.  The story is exciting and hard to put down.  The intro leaves you wondering throughout the whole story.  Its very easy to relate to the main character and feel what he feels, stress, confusion, love...  I can't say much else without giving away the books little secrets. 
I enjoyed this book; it was like an interesting history lesson or a memoir and I learned a lot about the horrors of living with the circus in the early 20th century. The relationships weren't as well developed as I like, neither were the characters. But the variety of characters made the story very interesting. The concept of Jacob as as old man remembering the circus is a good idea, but I didn't like Jacob as an old man; he was grumpy, self-centered, and aloof. I thought it took Jacob out of character because as a young man he was very mild mannered and pleasant. I don't think that part made the story better. 
I read this on behest of a suggestion...it was definitely worth the read!  I will definitely check out the movie. 
I loved this book!The meat of the story is told in flashback form. Jacob, a 93-year-old man living in a nursing home, recalls his stint as a vet on a traveling circus during the 1930s. As a young vet student at Cornell, Jacob is just about to sit for his final exams when both of his parents are killed in a car wreck. Sorting through their affairs, Jacob discovers that his family was penniless, having mortgaged their home to pay for his Ivy-league education.Sick with grief, Jacob hops a train. A train, he discovers, that is carrying the Benzini Brothers traveling circus. Before he knows it, he's on staff as the circus vet, tending to the needs of the circus lions, chimpanzees, and other fauna. It doesn't take Jacob long to meet Marlena, the beautiful performer in charge of the trick horses, and he's instantly smitten. However, Marlena's not free; she's already married to August, a bipolar, abusive manager in the traveling outfit. (Hence the requisite love triangle.)The rest of the tale follows Jacob as he discovers Rosie, a talented performing elephant; finds his own voice; siezes true love; and makes his way in the world.This is a great book. It's entertaining and easy to read, but not so rote and predictable that you don't get a kick out of it. Details of circus life in the 1930s are colorful and rich. Plus, the characters are great. 
It's a pretty good book some parts can get boring but over all it was a good read. Would recommend it to people who like a story that follows a good plot.. 
It took me a long time to pick up Water for Elephants, because I'm generally not a fan of the same type of books that seem so popular. I was hesitant when I first bought it and wasn't expecting much. I was pleasantly surprised when I dove into it - I couldn't put it down. I've heard a lot of people complain that this falls short of \"real\" circus life - but I can tell you, it's as close as I'm sure you'll ever get in this day and age, unless you talk to someone who worked back then. I can tell you from experience that circuses and carnivals have changed, very very drastically, from their old days. While I can't say I've traveled on a circus, I have grown up on a carnival that has been in my family for decades. The stories passed down from earlier times, the pictures taken, etc tell a very different tale from the modern day carnivals. I'm sure Water for Elephants is the same way. Sara Gruen is a favorite author of mine since I read her horse series years ago. I was sucked into this book from the beginning and was very pleasantly surprised by the way things progressed. There was never a dull moment in the book, though it was easy to guess what was happening next during most of it. It was a surprisingly dark book, but it was done in a way that did not make it terrible to read. The characters were interesting and engaging, though the love between the two main characters seemed rushed and sloppy. I would have rather seen a longer book with more development between them, but I can't complain too much. It was an exciting, though easy, read and I recommend it to anyone who is a fan of romance or simply interested in an old-time circus setting. I only hope the movie turns out as good as this book ( though my hope is not high ). 
** spoiler alert ** Like many people before me, I picked up this book after having seen and enjoyed the movie. This is one rare occasion where I loved the movie more than the book (but that may just be because I saw the movie first.) In some ways this is like an amped up romance novel. There's so much focus on the romance between Jacob and Marlena but she has the personality of a wet napkin so I really don't get the appeal. When I read the negative reviews for this book a lot of people made issue with the \" graphic and frequent sex scenes\" it made me somewhat hesitant to read it but those concerns were unfounded. There was some sex, and some thoughts of sex and some lit nips BUT the story is being told by a sex-deprived geriatric/ a horny teenage VIRGIN! If anyone was shocked that a 19yo was obsessed with scoring a little trim they should walk directly off the nearest cliff. It was a bit more detail than necessary but I've read sex scenes that made me cringe from the details and this wasn't that. If I had to list my own personal complaints I would start with the ending, that was literally my biggest issue with this novel. There are some big, gaping, elephant sized holes my friends. I mean, what did they do, stand around Bumpuckey West Nowhereland with 12 horses and and elephant for however many days until Ringling could come pick them up? I mean I get that it was a happy ending, the sun will come out tomorrow etc. but the author basically did a Sopranos style fade to black. What about the other animals?! Whatever, don't get me started, I could go off on an all day tangent.... point is there was something to be desired. My favorite parts of the book were mostly centered around Old Jacob, he was by far the best written (and my favorite) character. Curious as to why they cut the Rosemary character out of the movie, because their relationship was a nice really sweet. Overall it was a good read, I enjoyed traveling back in time to the circus and I am willing to overlook the flaws to take the trip. 
Water for Elephants is told through the \"90 something\" year old man in a retirement as he relives his life which came back to him when the circus comes to town.  The main character goes through some tough times and finds himself working for the circus a world he knows nothing about.  He then falls for a girl who is about as off limits as she can be.  This book is a very entertaining book that may start off a bit slow but once it picks up you can't stop reading until it's all over.  Fantastic book for a summer read! 
I enjoyed this book so,so much. Who would of thought? I was thoroughly entertained. I had never read anything about a circus so learned a lot. 
Sara Gruen's \"Water for Elephants\" is a one of those books that fascinate you with a look inside an unfamiliar world while entertaining you. The author is very adept at spinning a yarn, creating characters that spring to life in vibrant color, and setting up simultaneous storylines that build suspense and keep you interested. She is one of the best writer's I've read when it comes to inventing villains. I look forward to reading more by this author.  On sheer writing ability, I would've given her five stars, but there were a couple of things in the story that put me off. I won't spoil it for others by pointing them out, and I would still highly recommend this book for its pure entertainment value. 
Throughout the whole story, I kept wondering why everybody thought this was so great...however, the ending was really a great twist, really worthwhile. This is the kind of story where you feel very redeemed and glad you finished the story. It was really hard to read about the abuse of the animals because you just knew that, even though this is fiction, this stuff really happened. My heart goes out to all of the circus animals that suffered during the depression era and after. 
Water for elephants is happy, sad, romantic, and exciting ,it changes from page to page. Just as something exciting happens it switches to Jacob struggling as an old man in a nursing home. There are plenty of plot twists and surprises. The book is a very detailed description of a disgusting circus in the 1930's from the illegal moonshine to straining horse trough water through a pair of clowns panty hose to make lemonade, and the red lighting (when they are thrown off of the train over a tressle) of unwanted employees.  Although the main character has some difficulty, you know it will be ok in the end because he tells it as an old man in a nursing home. During his time in the circus Jacob makes some very interesting friends, like Walter the midget clown, Earl the gentle security guard ,and Uncle Al who is way more of a jerk than he seems. Overall the book was a very exciting story about Jacob trying to survive in a circus and getting the woman he loves. 
Well written at a good pace with events. Kind of weird with the flipping between timeline, but I see this type of conversation with my dad. Will not see the movie as I enjoyed the book more than I thought I would. Is a good read. 
Gruen paints a portrait of the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth, a Depression-era  train circus, operated by Alan J. Bunkel, known as Uncle Al, who is described as \"a buzzard, a vulture, an eater of carrion,\" who grew fat off the carcasses of circusses that collapsed after the Crash. Their losses were his gains.  The Prologue introduces the narrative which begins with a stampede of circus animals, and we are introduced to a secret which is kept by the narrator for 70 years.  The reader is immediately pulled into the narrative.The narrative is juxtaposed between Jacob Jankowski's life during the seven years he spent in the circus and his present life as an irascible 90 or 93 (he can't remember which) year old man in an assisted living facility.  As a young  veterinary student about to graduate from Cornell, Jacob finds himself homeless and parentless and is unable to take his final exams.  He finds himself jumping on a train which turns out to be Benzini's Circus train.  The reader is introduced to circus lingo - rubes are the circus-goers, kinkers are the performers and Patches are the men assigned to smooth the ruffled feathers of disgruntled spectators who might be angry they didn't get their money's worth at the Freak Show or those of a homeowner whose garden has been destroyed by a wandering elephant. One is given a glimpse into the highly stratified, almost caste-like social world of the circus in which performers never rubbed elbows with the likes of the lowly workers, particulary the black workers of the Flying Squadron, who were instructed to run into their tents and remain invisible as soon as the rubes started to make their appearance.The novel is plot-driven, and although there are many stereotypical elements - there are the requisite evil villains - Uncle Al and his sidekick August Rosenbluth, the equestrian director and superintendent of animals who is hated and feared for his violent tendencies and his legendary cruelty to humans and circus animals. There is also the requisite central love story between two gentle souls sho have been dealt life's difficult blows, but whose goodness and pure intentions help them to weather the storm. There is Bobo the orangutuan and particularly Rosie the elephant, who steal our hearts, and we root for them as much as we root for Jacob and Marlena. If you are looking for a novel embedded with deep hidden meanings and rich with literary technique and complex characterization, then this is definitely not the book for you. If you are looking for a plot-driven novel whose events proceed rapidly and which transports the reader to another world, then I highly recommend this delightfully readable novel.In spite of the stereotypical elements, I thoroughly enjoyed this novel. I found myself getting up extra early and staying up extra late to get to the last page, and when I did, I was sorry the journey was over. I wasn't quite ready to say goodbye to Jacob, Marlena, Kinko, Camel, Rosie or Bobo.  Perhaps I will just read it again. 
This is not the sort of book I normally read, but I enjoyed reading this one.  It had a very good story. 
This was my least favorite of Riding Lessons, Flying Changes and Ape House. Sara Gruen has a way of writing about relationships between humans and animals. It is unbelievable the love that is conveyed is incredible. 
WATER for ELEPHANTS was a quick and mostly enjoyable read for me.  The story of Jacob, a young man on the verge of his career as a veterinarian, was told as the flashback of a much older Jacob, who now resides in a nursing home.  As young Jacob was about to take his final exams and graduate from vet school, his world crumbled when his parents were killed in a car accident.  Left without family or money, a despondent Jacob jumped on a passing train.  He soon found himself working as a vet for a traveling circus.  The story of young Jacob's adventures with the circus is interwoven with the story of old Jacob's life as a resident in a nursing home.  I loved the book, but I found parts of it too graphic.  There were sexually explicit passages as well as descriptions of violent animal abuse, which I felt were overdone and unnecessary to the story. 
Sara Gruen created an amazing story that takes into account the events between the present and the past. This is an enchanting tale that I did not want to end. Her extensive research into the circus life; its animals and the relationship with people involve was very evident. Her writing is very descriptive and full of emotion. Overall, I thought Water for Elephants was a terrific story and worthy of a readers time. Highly recommend. 
The best part of this book is the narrator, the back and forth in time, the way it's made as a memory. Beautiful story. 
I was a bit relucatant at first but after starting, it turned out to be a wonderful story.  Current then past...etc. It didn't confuse the reader, it took you on a trip from the 1930's to current day and what a fun ride with action, romance, sadness...almost every emotion.I usually don't go in for this sort of book but it was very well written 
I really enjoyed this book.  Water For Elephants is the story of a young man who almost becomes a veterinarian, but is too distraught over the death of his parents to sit the final exams.  After being left with nothing, he accidentally hops a circus train and is hired on as their vet.  The story of his time with the circus is told in flashbacks, and is very well done.  Love, betrayal, hope, cruelty, and compassion combine with wonderful prose and true-to-the-era settings to give you a great read.  I picked this book up on a whim not knowing anything about it, and then couldn't put it down.  Fascinating! 
I'm so glad I didn't see the movie! I've just recently read the book and couldn't put it down. Honestly it wasn't that long and only took me about 2 days to read which was good. At first it was a bit slow but the plot was really great and had just enough suspense!! I highly recommend this book, it's popular for a reason!!!! 
Guess which one?  Most people would choose the circus story, I would venture to guess.  But for me, the old man in the nursing home was the superb plotline.  Having observed my parents and grandparents and other people in that situation, I thought the author captured the experience, and the frustration for the...I always want to say 'inmate' rather than 'patient'...who one day finds him/herself to be 90 (or 93) and wonders how this ever came about.  The little indignities were all there, along with understanding that the 'inmate's' children are getting on in years themselves and can't assume caretaking.  It was done with humor, compassion, and insight.  I suppose a whole book devoted to a nursing home soap opera would have been too much, so the circus story paced it out.I found myself skimming the chapters about the circus so I could get back to the nursing home drama.  I often do that with books where I like one plotline but not the other.  (The Devil in the White City; The Short History of a Prince).  Pssst, don't tell the authors, but I'll bet a lot of other readers do, too. 
Had heard book was good and used it as my borrowed book with Amazon Prime.  Wonderful story...kept me reading.  Gave me considerable insight into the intelligence of elephants! 
This is a sentimental story, with quite a bit of charm. It is touted as a \"crowd pleaser\" and that is probably the reason for its huge success. You do root for the narrator, even if the plot is contrived, the ending obvious, and the characterization somewhat weak.I would have hoped for a more authentic and earthy description of a Depression-era circus, but the writing is watered down. Often the conflicts between the characters are too quickly or conveniently resolved, and the characters seem to be at the mercy of the plot. Major crises are quickly skimmed over, and the true potential of this book is never fully developed.I read this to the end--which says something--but reflecting back on the book I wish it had been stronger and more carefully constructed. 3.5 stars. 
I liked this book, wouldn't say it was the best one I've ever read though. The story itself was well thought out and put together with good incorporations of the flashback to 1931 and the action occurring in the present. I think right after the beginning when Jacob first joins the circus and they get the elephant is a little slow where there is not really much of a plot that has been introduced yet so it was slightly tedious in some parts in that area. The other thing is that there might have been a couple of unnecessary characters that made the story too much of a task to follow at times with all the names and who is who and such. 
After reading several reviews, I think that many readers may have missed the entire point of \"Water for Elephants\".  Some reviewers said that the book didn't say much about circus life and some say they did not care about learning about the circus. \"WFE\" teaches us that it is ok to rememeber fondly those most rewarding experiences throughout your life but also that it is never too late to create new experiences.  It also provides us with a unique perspective of everyday life in a senior living facility...a place that many of us may end up in one day. 
This is a good book that partially describes how the circus business operated during 1930's. Good plot, interesting emotional characters and lots' of historical information/anecdotes.The story is narrated by a very old person, I found some parts of his everyday life descriptions not so exciting. The narrative seemed like a novel approach though and I give the author credit for that. 
I've actually read this book twice--once because some friends recommended it, and then a few years later I read it again when the movie came out.  I thought the story was fascinating about a young man whose veterinary education is interrupted and he hops a circus train.  He becomes the circus vet and his whole life changes. Of course this all happens during the Great Depression.  I guess I liked this book because of the background research by the author about circuses during that period.  The old photos were charming as well. Like another reviewer mentioned not all of the facts regarding the care of animals may have been accurate but it's a fictional story and I think you have to give some license to that.  It's a book you would take on the plane or to the beach just to enjoy! 
This story was so easy to get wrapped up in, even thoguh it is in a different time and unusual circumstance. 
I will admit, the only reason I bought this, is because it was $5 for the Kindle, but the story grabs you from the very beginning, and holds you until the end. As vacuous as it may seem, the author writing from a male's perspective was a bit off, but Jacob's character is easy to identify with, and who doesn't love an elephant that kicks the bad guy's ***!!! 
Quite a few people recommended I read this book and I'm glad I did! It had all the components you want in a good book, and a fantastic inside look of the depression era circus. You can't help but love or hate the characters,and I found myself smiling at the end. Read it! 
I really enjoyed this historical novel about a depression-era circus and the people who work in it. 
WATER FOR ELEPHANTS by Sara GruenMay 15, 2008Rating ****   (4.5/5 Stars)There was a lot of hype surrounding this book the year it came out, and I usually don't like to read books like that until the fuss has died down a bit. A friend sent this to me and I finally found the time to read it (plus it was also a group read). The book definitely does live up to its reputation, and I will most likely list it as one of my favorite reads in 2008.WATER FOR ELEPHANTS is the story of a man, who now in his golden years, is reminiscing about his past and his days with a traveling circus. The book goes back and forth between the two time periods, the present and the past (Depression era), and I think it was done quite nicely. Jacob Jankowski is the narrator and old man that is looking back on the eccentric life he had with the circus, about the people he met and knew, and the woman that changed his life. While Jacob sits in the old folks home, his mind wanders back to those days, often confusing the present with the past.His past takes us to his story of how he ended up with the circus, just a few college exams short of a degree. His future was to be that of a veterinarian, but that dream was cut short when his parents die suddenly, and he doesn't have the focus to continue. He loses the family home, loses his bright future, and has nowhere to go. Luck brings him to the train that carries the circus from one town to another. He hitches a ride, and thus begins the adventure of a lifetime.The reader will discover that this book is not really about the circus. Yes, most of the story line does take place behind the scenes of a circus, but what WATER FOR ELEPHANTS is really all about is loyalty, friendship and love, and the relationships that Jacob develops during these years with the circus. Comparing Jacob's current life in the seniors' home to what he had in the circus is almost akin to that of a caged animal being locked up. Jacob's time in this seniors' home is stagnating him, and he continues to look back at his younger years with longing. He remembers all that had transpired, his relationships with his fellow circus entertainers and workers, the circus ringmaster, a cruel and dangerous man who had his gentle side, and the ringmaster's wife, Marlena, who is in a way imprisoned in a marriage that she can't get out of.  In the middle of it all is a gentle elephant named Rosie, who becomes an integral part of the circus and an animal that Jacob takes under his wing. It is Rosie's relationship with several of the main characters that helps tell the story of these people, leading back toJacob's present state and where his last remaining days on earth will take him.I highly recommend WATER FOR ELEPHANTS. It's an insightful story about people, in an unusual setting. 
vivid is the best way to describe it. very interesting portrait of the depression era 
Fun book about the circus life of the 1930's.  Characters pretty well developed, easy to follow. I especially liked the chapters about the old man and his thoughts about his life. Very real. 
Well written book. I like a book that when I am reading it I feel that I am right there. 
I liked the realistic history of the story. Knowing that was really what happened with the circus and animals. I just wished that reality was not so cruel to the animals or so hard on the people from that time in history. I love that it really tells that life, and maybe we should look to see our older people with value and not something that we can just cast off. 
This book, as expected, is about the circus.  But it's about the circus in the early years....not the big stadium circuses we see today.The story is narrated by a 90-year old man in a nursing home.  He worked in the circus when he was younger, and when he sees a circus setting up down the street, he begins to reminisce.  The story is told in two eras, that of the man's young years with the circus (during the Depression) and that of the man's present time in the nursing home.I have to say that I looked forward to getting back to the book every day.  I truly enjoyed it.  It's action packed, thoughtful, and different.  I read this book very quickly! 
I bought this novel for my Nana long before it was made into a movie - she loved it and raved about it to everyone. I felt very proud to have picked a good book for her. A few years later I read it myself and I fell in love. This book is delicious and a real treat. You will fall in love with every character and you will not want the circus to end.Even if you have watched the movie - you should read the book - it is (as always) so much more than the movie. 
I found this book interesting....I loved the way the bad guys 'got theirs'...and the ending was perfect!  I would recomend it to any older, retired individual...you can see yourself in a lot of the story. 
Water For ElephantsBy Sara GruenSo for this book I decided to jump had first into it without reading any reviews or even the synopsis.  It turned out to be a very well written and beautiful story about love, hardships, and a circus. It's the great depression 1932, prohibition is in full swing, and like so many others a young man has had his entire life torn into pieces and ends up wandering straight into the adventure of a lifetime.  Jake Jankowski, the main character in our epic story, is distraught when he is informed that both his parents have died in an automobile accident. After, what we can only assume is a nervous breakdown while taking his final exams for veterinary school; he walks out and continues until he cannot bear to go any further.  While resting near a train track as a train rumbles up, and he decides to try to \"hitch\" a ride to the next town not realizing he has jumped aboard a circus train.  From there he meets many characters who will forever change his life.I found myself falling in love right along with him, hating the villain with a fiery passion, and cheering for a quirky elephant named Rosie whom Sara Gruen describes so vividly that you can't help but smile.  Sara Gruen manages to create a scene so well you can imagine yourself there, but she never loses you with too many details.  Personally, I am torn whether or not I love this story.  In the first half of the book when she is setting a scene she would add some explicit details that weren't necessary. Since she had already masterfully created her setting and by adding those I can only assume she was after shock value.  I did enjoy the story, but I have a hard time swallowing adultery, I guess I have just been married too long.  I can understand why the characters were drawn to each other and why she would cheat on her husband, but I don't personally enjoy it.  In my opinion she could have used something else for her characters to over-come.  It's not like they didn't have three or four other obstacles to surmount. All and all I couldn't put it down so I suppose I can't be too harsh. 
Found story very interesting.  My dad traveled  with the circus five years when he was young, When I was young we went to every circus within 50 miles and I got to spend time in the back where most people do not see, Loved seeing and petting all the animals.  We stayed until cars were all loaded on thetrain. At that time the horses brought the cars to the tracks and then the elephants pushed them upon to the train. My Dad saw all but 2 of the states. I miss the real circus , The ones today are only so so. 
This book is a great read. Very enjoyable to learn about circus life. The author did a lot of research about the circus so it makes the story very real. I couldn't help but cringe sometimes with the story of the animals, but there is always a dark side to everything. Highly recommend it. An overall great book. 
Water for Elephants came highly recommended from several friends but it fell a little short of great.  The writing is good, but the love story is a little lacking.  In my opinion, Jacob and Marlena did not have enough scenes together for me to truly believe that they were falling in love.  I know the title is \"Water for Elephants,\" but there was a little too much about the animals in this book and not enough about the people.  I know it was about the circus but I guess I'm the type who likes a better-developed love story if I'm going to \"buy\" it.  I don't want it to sound like I disliked this book.  I didn't.  It just wasn't a story that blew me away.  It's a nice enough read for people who like sweet, well-written books. 
If you read a summary of the plot of this book, it's a little hard to swallow, and frankly, when my book club picked this one for June, I was a little less than excited.  Luckily, I was pleasantly surprised.OK, so I read this book on vacation, on the lovely island of Maui...any book might be great in those circumstances.  Still, I found myself thinking about it often when I wasn't reading.  Even though the plot is romantic at the bare-bones level, I never really felt like I was reading a romance.  Gruen does a wonderful job descibing the details of the circus, and I was more interested in the day-to-day details of train circuses than the romance.  I thought the interaction between characters and the historical element complimented each other well.If you read this book, be sure to read the interview with the author (at the end of the paperback edition).  Interestingly, Gruen admits that she had never been to a circus (never been to a circus???) before writing this book.  I see that as a testimony to the quality of her research and her writing.  I also love the way she integrates real stories that she has heard from circus folks with her fictional tale (all explained in the interview).Honestly, I thought the \"prologue\" was kind of a sell out.  This story doesn't need the mystery the prologue tries to introduce.  If you skip it, you'll get just as much or more out of the book.Overall, definitely worth the read.  One of my favorites so far this year. 
A story based on facts about a depression era circus.  Story follows a vet and others he befriends in one of 100's of traveling circus's of the time.  A love relations develops, but the main theme is the cruelty and hard life the crew and performers must endure who are essentially endentured servants. 
Sometimes you just have to read a good story or, in this case, a very good story.  You don't need a lot of depth or socially redeeming value, just a real good story with a very good narrator/character.  This is that kind of book.The main character flees his final vetinary exams in a panic and joins the circus, rather accidentally.  There, in the midst of the Depression, he meets an assortment of interesting characters from roustabouts to sideshow attractions to performers to evil owners and animal trainers.  Of course, being the vet, there are also the circus animals.  He also falls in love.The characters are terrific, especially the narrator, who is introduced as a 93 year old gentleman reflecting on his past in the circus.  There are brief snippets of him in the nursing home that touching and humorous.  Beyond the characters that her narrator meets, Ms Gruen also captures the flavor of the traveling circuses hanging on by a thread during the Depression and the financial desperation of the times.  If one were to seek depth, this book observes the dichotomy between the roustabouts who will work without pay just to have a job and prospects of pay and the owners who eat and live well on the burdensome work or others.  But still, it's mostly a very good story.Although this book has been reviewed as a \"romance\ there is much more here besides the romance and more depth to classify it denigradingly as a chic book.The book is well-written and the characters all very good, especially the main character/narrator.  He is an everyman and a keen observer of the world and people around him.  Highly recommended. 
Found this to be a very entertaining book to read.  Enjoyed the way the author took the main character from the present back into the past and back and forth.  Also a good education on circus life during the time of the depression. 
I bought this on the strength of the movie, and because I wanted to read something on my new iPad mini. It took me to a different time and place, and it was a good, quick read. If you enjoyed the movie, you'll appreciate the added detail that the book brings. The circus pix were a nice touch too. 
Water for Elephants is a terrific, light read about depression era circus life in the USA. Now of course, this type of circus is almost extinct due to the cruel treatment of both animals and those that they marketed as \"freaks\ but there's no doubt that almost as much action and adventure happened outside of the ring as inside. The \"Greatest show on earth\" was just as good a description of life on these itinerant circuses as it was to the events shown to they paying public. In the US, these great circus extravaganzas travelled by rail, and the collection of desperate workers, preening performers and animals ensured an interesting mix.Sara Gruen's tale begins with a wonderfully touching portrait of a 90-ish old man, Jacob, now left to live out his days in a nursing home. But in his youth, he was employed as a circus vet (although unqualified) and what a tale he recalls. Incidentally, the name Jacob is clearly intentional as there are a number of references on the life of the biblical Jacob from Genesis - although they are subtle and only add, rather than distract from the story.Gruen has clearly researched her subject in great depth (the addition of vintage photos from the era before each chapter that is devoted to the past is a nice touch) and there's a suggestion that at least some of the stories included either did happen or are rumoured to have happened. Just occasionally her explanations are a little clumsy, but they are needed to explain some of the terminology. But most importantly, she manages to get a sense of the faded grandeur and charged atmosphere of these great circus trains.At heart, this is a love story with a list of characters that include a grumpy dwarf, a drink-sodden old timer, a beautiful performer, a naiive vet, a mad director of animals, a toothless lion and a charismatic elephant. What's not to love?A movie is due out shortly, but although not having seen it of course, it's a fair bet there will be some Hollywood style sugar coating of this tale. The book includes both some steamy scenes as well as some gritty and potentially disturbing descriptions of animal conditions - and it's all the better for that dark side - so read the book at least before seeing the movie. 
This book was highly recommended to me, but it took a couple tries for me to get started.  Once the circus train has left the station, however, it is a very engaging narrative. 
This is a very interesting read because it describes, in great detail, a segment of life in the US that is not often known and was experienced by relatively few people. The story revolves around a traveling circus and the many characters who live with and work for the show. I will not go into any detail about the story other than to say that it is very well written, in a style that allows the reader to really see what is going on. Without giving away anything, the story is told from the perspective of the main character as he recounts the events that happened so many years ago. What happens to him at the very end is what generated the discussion. Was it a realistic ending or just a romanticized but unrealistic conclusion to the story? I urge you to read it and post your thoughts here. 
I enjoyed this book for the most part, particularly the characters and the tales of circus life. I would have given it 5 stars but thought the ending was weak. Also, the jumping from nursing home to circus and to nursing home was distracting. 
Sara Gruen has created an engaging memoir narrated by the nonagenarian veteran and veterinarian of a depression-era circus.  Her research into the caste hierarchy and politics of train circuses reveals a world which, much like HBO's Deadwood, had its own laws of lawlessness and morality of immorality.  Into this world Jacob Jankowski is unwittingly dropped, and the recounting of his evolution from inheritor of his father's veternary practice to circus vet to aged resident of an assisted living facility is almost always convincingly told.  While Jacob may be the hero/narrator, it is most definitely Rosie the elephant who steals the show and wins your heart.  Like the rubes who paid their nickels and dimes to gawk at the freaks, I felt my $14.37 was well spent for a 332-page peek behind the big-top. 
This book is a captivating potrayal of circus life during the depression years.  I believe that the author missed an opportunity; this book could have been longer and still held our attention if she had told more about the llife of the protagonist between youth and old age.  Perhaps there is a sequel that could be written.  The characters in the book are a fascinating mix and the author successfully describes the mix of good and bad characteristics that exist in all of us. 
I really like all the stories in this novel.  The characters are people I would like to have lunch with and get to know. 
Water For Elephants is a remarkable accomplishment, a wonderful book with colorful, unforgettable characters. It is by turns heartwarming, heartbreaking, exciting, and horrifying--with an ending that took me by surprise. I enjoy circus stories and have read several, none as good as this one (with the exception of Gus the Great). If you're old enough to remember the film The Greatest Show on Earth, this is it but without the slick DeMille romanticism. Water for Elephants is raw and realistic, one man's life in a circus and in a nursing home. There are other reviews here that give details of the plot so I won't repeat what they've said.There is a lot I loved about this book--the character of Jacob, the circus atmosphere,the story itself. It has many remarkable elements.One of the most remarkable is the nursing home part of the story. The author appears to be fairly young, several decades too young to know what it feels like to be elderly, to know you are failing physically, to be afraid you're failing mentally, to remember vividly when you were young and know you will never be young again. Yet she very convincingly shows you the heart and mind of a feisty old man. All in all, it's one of the best historical novels I have ever read. I wish I had written it.The above was the text of my original review and I stand by it. However, something vauguely bothered me about the book. Then, following a discussion I reread it and did a little research of my own. Now I know what it was. She is several years too early in her use of \"paranoid schizophrenia\". By the time the old man is TELLING the story it would be in use, but certainly was not in use at the time she has a character using the term, and this seems like insufficient, possibly sloppy research. The other thing was the slaughter of several horses by cutting their throats. Horse people I know questioned it. A horse is big and powerful and would be frightened, not likely to let it happen unless he was heavily medicated. It seems done only for the effect of the gore. A properly placed gunshot would serve and be more merciful, more logical.However, I still think it's an outstanding book, even with the flaws, and I still wish I'd written it. 
If you've ever had to write a resume, you've come across the dilemma; which counts for more?  Experience or degrees?  The answer, of course, is experience, the real question being how one describes that crucial intangible.  Water for Elephants is the story of a man's youth, the experience he gains in a short period of time.  Essentially, it begins with him walking out on his final college exams and jumping a circus train almost accidentally.  This book is actually structured as a series of flashbacks, with the main character in roughly the present day, bracketing each chapter with comments about his current situation in a nursing home as contrast to his past adventures.  The main action takes place during the Great Depression, making for a fairly historical novel.Water for Elephants may feature a fairly original character with some serious common sense deficiencies, but Sara Gruen clearly did her research in terms of depictions of the period, inclusion of trade lingo, and depictions of animal behavior.  The adultery will probably keep it off high school reading lists, but I found it a pretty good window on what it depicted of the world outside of the circus.  This particular copy of the book also includes some commentary at the end regarding real circus history and anecdotes that were included in with the fiction.  Other than that, I know too little about life under the big top to comment on the depiction of events, other than to say that trains often did go slow enough to jump back then, even in the countryside, unlike now.I read this novel in less than a day, finding it to be a very compelling read, with a plot full of twists, even though the most climactic scene is also presented as the hook in the beginning preface chapter.  I would generally recommend it to everyone, even if you think you would have a problem with some aspects of it.  Try to give it a chance.  The main character is a vet, for example, and while animals are harmed in this circus, he doesn't like it any more than you. 
I enjoyed reading the book immensely. Learned a lot about the circus life through the book. I would recommend  to all! 
This is an interesting book.  It's well paced and the story keeps pulling you along, although I can't think of a single thing that makes it stand out.  It's not mysterious or adventurous and has very little romance in it, yet you keep reading.  Maybe it's just plain good story telling. 
Jacob Jankowski runs away from his ivy league veterinary education when his parents die in an accident and joins a circus on impulse. His training serves him well and provides him a place of esteem among the performers and the workers, an odd position which spans both groups. He falls for the lovely Marlena who performs with the horses, but she is married to August, a violent but charismatic animal trainer. The story culminates when the circus purchases an elephant named Rosie whose intelligence hides behind her thick skin.Some of the best scenes in this book are those in the nursing home when Jacob is an old man who can't remember if he is 90 or 93. The writing is sensitive, believable, and these moments are some of the most emotional snippets from the book. That is not to say that the rest is boring. Gruen has written a real page turner, and although it is not entirely original, it is incredibly entertaining. 
While I recommend this book, the slow up-start did little to urge me further. However, by the time the key players are in place, the plot picks up and makes for a fascinating love story with a gritty kick. My only real complaint is that the main character felt foreign to me throughout the book, but he seems to come into his own by the conclusion. This book will make an excellent movie. 
This book was an excellent way to spend my time. I learned so many things about the circus that I did not know before. Although, you do not need to be interested in the circus to enjoy the book. It does not bog you down in unwanted details. It gives you enough to paint the picture for the background of the story. It helps you to identify with the love story which unfolds before your eyes. 
This was a very interesting story within a story. A story reflecting back on the life of a man who is now in his 90's  in &#34;Assisted Living&#34;. We learn much about living a life in the Circus, especially back in the 30's....it was no picnic!! Along with tragedy we find adventure, humor and romance. I would have given the book 5 stars but for the swearing and sex content. I didn't expect that. It didn't have to be so explicit, so in my opinion the 4 star rates it a very good read!! 
This is one of those books that is so good you don't want to put it down. The book was way better than the movie. I would suggest anyone who enjoyed the movie to go back and read the book. 
It was a wonderful story. I can't wait to see the movie to compare. You really start feeling for the main characters 
Okay, I'm going to be brutally honest... I didn't want to read this novel because Robert Pattinson plays the lead male in the film adaptation. There I've said it. That horrible bit of judgement being said, Water for Elephants by Sara Gruen was a great novel that I would have been sorry to miss, had I not given it this chance.93 year old Jacob Jankowski is living in a nursing home when the circus comes to town. With the circus' arrival, Jacob begins telling a series of memories from his own life as a circus veterinarian.The story swiftly becomes a love story between Jacob and Marlena, who works with the horses and elephant. Marlena is married to the head trainer, August, who is abusive and brash. Jacob refuses to allow August to treat the animals or Marlena with such little respect!A sweet love story with great characters. I generally don't enjoy novels involving infidelity and since Marlena was married when she and Jacob fell in love, I was torn between being happy for them and being furious that she wouldn't leave her husband before allowing her love for Jacob to blossom. Everything happens the way it is supposed to and I found myself reading through this novel fast... I didn't know what the outcome would be. Definitely worth checking out!-Sarah[...] 
This one took me a while to get used to, since the circus doesn't appeal to me naturally. I enjoyed the chapters narrated by the 90, or 93 year old, he made me laugh every 5 minutes. As the plot thickened during the cirucs era, my interest peeked and I can honestly say I enjoyed the rest of the book, and may be open to reading another book about the circus. 
I love animal stories, but I always read them bracing for the sad ending.  This book was a mixed bag.In the first part of the book, terrible things happened to both people and animals.In the latter part of the book, the angels practically came down to sing.  Everything good that could happen, did!  I'm not opposed to that.  It just seemed a bit much. Too simplisic.  Even the ultimate solution for old Jacob was just strangely perfect and therefore hard to believe.A logical question that bugged me about the plot was why did Uncle Al not get rid of the schizophrenic August?  And how in the world did August get to be in charge of the animals in the first place? He wasn't good with them.  Jacob or the other Polish worker would have been much more effective training Rosie.  If Uncle Al had ditched August, the inflammatory situation between him, Marlena, and Jacob would have been defused.When Jacob was scooping up Rosie and the liberty horses, I was silently pleading 'Don't forget BoBo.'  And he didn't.  Like I said, just too good to be true. 
Growing old is not fun, but this dear character had an exciting life, as you go back with him. Warm and emotional, funny and exciting. You really need to read this one. 
This book was a pleasure.  It is meaningful enough to warrant the time to read it and yet it is still fun and engrossing enough for a good poolside read while on vacation.  The protagonist's world is shredded near the beginning and he does what readers of this review would dream of but never do.  He hops a circus train and enters that most bizarre of American sub cultures of the depression era 1930's.  Read this and live vicariously in the circus from the comfort of your hotel's patio furniture.  You'll be glad you did and you'll feel more literate than if you read most of the trash you see at other chairs around the pool. 
I do not like the circus. Although it did seem like an interesting book,  I passed on it the first few times it came up on a search. Finally, I gave in.  I am so glad that I did.  This is an excellent book. I still will not go out of my way to get to a circus, but I do think of this book every time I see an elephant.  Thank you for a great read. 
This story was interesting in the fact that it was told as a memory of the main character.  Provided a look into life with a circus.  I have not seen the movie and not sure if I will.  Wouldn't want to movie to ruin the book by not following the story line. 
I really didn't ever plan on reading this- I saw it several times in walmart, and never really put a thought to it- but then I ended up getting it anyway one day when I went to my school library.It was actually very good, save for the fact that halfway through the book,  i felt like a part was missing.The book basically tells the story of young man, Jacob, who joins the circus after his parents die. Since he's college educated in vetranairy science (save for the fact he never took the final exams) he becomes the circus \"animal doctor\". Soon he falls in love with the hot headed circus director's wife- and finds himself at odds with a uncontrollable- but loveable- elephant.The book is interesting, funny, and smart, but it definately wasn't perfect. First, it seems like a part was missing, practically. At the beginning of the book, the dwarf that Jacob rooms with, Walter, basically hates Jacob's guts. Plus, he meets the girl of his dreams, except that they don't really spend that much time together. Then, before I knew it, Walter and Jacob are best friends (and no reason to be) and Jacob and his girl (i forget her name, it's been a few weeks since I read it) are in love (but don't want to admit it because of her husband, August.)If you can get past these few things, the book is pretty good overall. Quite enjoyable. 
Learn a lot about the circus life.  Book holds your attention.  Interesting story being told through the eyes of a 90+ year old 
I didn't realize this was such a controversial book until I came to write my review. I liked the book. It is fast paced and an easy read. I did not like the explicit sexual scenes; I don't think they added anything, other than showing Jacob was nave, which we knew anyway. I didn&#8217;t like the animal abuse, and the fact that he was a vet and didn&#8217;t do anything about it, but if he would have he probably would have been red-lighted. The author did a lot of research about the circus in that era and it was interesting to read about some of the things that really did happen. 
The story held my interest since I had an uncle who was the front man for the circus.  The story line  took the reader through this man's early life and into old age with ease.  The characters come to life and before the book is finished one can smell the popcorn and the big top. 
I had a little trouble getting into this book, but I kept reading because my best friend loved it so much. After the first few chapters, I was hooked. I couldn't put it down, and I was sorry when it was over. Except for the slow beginning, it would've gotten 5 stars from me. 
I read this book as one of the monthly selections for my book group.  We all loved it.  It is a human love story, an animal love story, a novel about a young man who overcomes terrible loss and a tale of survival.  As a child of parents who grew up during the Depression, I was interested in how the history of that era played a role in the plot.  I found the descriptions of the social hierarchy of circus performers, their relationships with the animals and the perspective of how they function as a sub-culture especially informative.  The author makes us, the readers, really love or hate the characters, and there were a few times when I found myself wishing I could step into a scene and protect or stand up to some of the characters.  Although the ending didn't seem quite realistic, it does fit with the hopeful dreams we all conjure up when we visit the Big Top. 
This is a very good read. Circus life isn't a subject I know much about so from the historical perspective it was very interesting. I like that the story incorporates so many different sociological issues and is such a good argument for animal rights...especially circus animals. 
This is a good book. Its not the best I ever read but it was a nice easy read. I would read it again! Has a sweet story to it. 
This book was recommended to me and I'm glad I read it.  It is not something I normally would have read but I did enjoy it.  I knew nothing about the circus and so was fascinated by the story.  I usually read family saga type novels so found this one not as easy to read.  It is, however, an excellent book and well worth the time and effort.  Very interesting. 
An enjoyable three ring circus!  With many acts and clowns (both more ways than one.)  The reader participated... in sights and sounds!  This multi-layered book was a high flying wire show!  Bravo! 
Awesome story. Very captivating and well written. Thank you to editor of the book as well. Always nice to read a well written well edited book! 
This book had a bit of everything! At first I did not think I would be interested in reading about a circus, but that quickly changed!!!! 
I really enjoyed this book.  I usually like to read a book vs seeing the movie.  The book is usually way better.  This was a pretty good book. Loved the elephant. She was very smart in the end. 
I liked the information about traveling circuses. This book was an easy read. I especially enjoyed the time period and the first person accounts of life in a circus. The action in the story was unpredictable. I will be looking to read some of her other work. 
This is certainly an entertaining piece of work, one that will keep you occupied for the 4-6 hours that it takes you to read it.  Definitely not heavy lifting, but amusing and well worth the time.The story revolves around Jacob Jankowski, a 93 year old nursing home resident who \"flashes back\" to his early adult years spent in the Benzini Brothers circus.  The circus backdrop provides the opportunity to introduce numerous colorful characters and anecdotes (many of which are historical) that keep the story moving along at a good pace.The book opens with a prologue which is revisited near the end of the novel with an extremely well devised plot twist and puzzler.  I thought this was extremely well done.  The end of the novel, involving the 93 year old Jacob, was also very satisfying.All in all, a light, entertaining and easily consumed piece of work. 
I really enjoyed reading this book.  It was a page turner and very unique.  I would highly recommend this book to anyone looking for a quick, good read. 
What an enjoyable story! At 65 I have memories of seeing small circuses as well as Ringling Bros.  I also find myself wondering about the future ... will I live to a ripe old age ... & will my family still care about me. This book was very well researched & written. 
This is a different story line than I'm used to reading but it was very interesting.  I read it in about a week.  I then gave it to my mom to read and she enjoyed it also.  Interesting take on circus life. 
I had no idea what circus life was like, & found this story to enlighten me. Cruelty to the animals is tough to read, but reality is sometimes difficult to face.  The interesting day to day life of circus employees, plus the dramatic differences in how workers vs performers were treated was dramatic! The relationships between the characters were interesting. I enjoyed this book in spite of the cruelty to animals & some vulgarity. 
I did enjoy this book. It was interesting to see how the circus used to be in the past. I thought it could have been better written and the plot seemed to fizzle out. But with a good imagination you can read more into the characters than the book discloses. Overall I am glad I read the book! 
It's a very imaginative story that you don't want to end. My only complaint would be that the bad language is a bit much. 
Jacob looks back to memories of love and his time with the circus when he was a young man.  He needs them now more than ever to get him through the declining life he lives out in a nursing home. The story portrayed a difficult, sad, evil circus environment where animals were mistreated by men who mistreated each other as well, I guess to survive the depression.  I wanted more from the story than its hopeful ending.  I wanted throughout to be lifted above its base struggles. I want more vivid descriptions of scenes and increased depth to the characters. What Jacob, like so many in nursing homes needed most was the comfort of family, friends, and staff to listen, to care. A well written book with depressing undertones. 
A wonderful depiction of life in the circus world as seen through the eyes of a man who worked in one during the great depression. This story comes to life more strongly with every turn of the page! Gripping!! 
I haven't seen the movie (I usually prefer the books anyway), so had little knowledge of the plot. I really enjoyed the history of how the country was during the Depression and how, basically, lawless the country still was, where people could come and go and even disappear. I enjoyed learning the levels of \"society\" within the circus and the behind the scenes look at the life of performers and workers. Life was hard in those days with no government assistance to fall back on. Aside from the window into a different time and place, the plot was interesting too. 
I found this very entertaining. I enjoyed the story and found the whole (based on actual history) idea of Depression-era people running off to join the circus fascinating. The love story itself is a bit cliche, but this is a good read and better than many books I've read. 
This view inside the life of  people in a traveling circus is not like anything I have ever read before.  Since a friend told me it was her favorite book, I decide to step outside my mystery craving and try it.  While some of the situations are a stretch, the character development and especially the relationships were worth the read.  It tends toward darkness at times, so if that bothers you, this isn't the book for you.  If not, you might enjoy it. 
If you were a kid and experienced the train arriving, the parade of elephants, and the setting up of the big tent, this book will inform you of what went on behind the extravaganza!  I saw the performers outside with their buckets, but who would ever imagine what their lives were like?  I went to the side shows, ate the cotton candy and this book brought it all back!  This is a great novel with circus history that I fully enjoyed!  A perfect ending to those who wonder about Jacob's future! 
This is a fast, easily read, and entertaining book. A must read for animal lovers and circus lovers alike. Kudos. 
